here  in file  Country Focus Note   Bangladesh    The objective of this note is to provide readers with an overview of financial   inclusion in Bangladesh. The note begins with an examination of the   current state of financial inclusion in the country. It moves on to recent   trends that have been driving usage in the financial sector. The note   concludes by a view of the challenges that limit financial inclusion  and the   opportunities that exist to unlock the potential of fintechs.     163 Million  Population    51.3 Million  Population with   income <USD 2   per day    148 Million  Population with   income <USD 10   per day    65%  Rural population    31%  Banked population    8.9%  Gender gap in ownership   of bank accounts    61.5%  Adult literacy level    81.8%  Mobile penetration    Key Trends  Savings    Key Trends  Credit    •  Less than a quarter of the population save money    of which less than a third save at a formal financial   institution.    •  Low disposable income  high transaction costs  large     distances from financial institutions  and complex   documentation are some of the key barriers for low  income customers.    •  Ranked at 85 globally in terms of ease of access to     loans    •  Less than half of the population avail credit  of which     less than a fifth avails credit from formal financial   institutions.    •  Lack of customised products exclude the poor and     push them towards informal sources of credit.    General Business Environment    #177    Ranked on ease of   doing business index    99.2%    of the population has   access to electricity    #107  Ranked on     availability of   venture capital    46.5%    of the population   has access to the     Internet    Distribution of transaction amount of various     MFS activities for December  2017    1.42%    15.49%    2.20%    0.65%    0.02%    Inward Remittance    Cash in Transaction    42.10%    Cash out Transaction    P2P transaction    Salary Disbursement (B2P)    Utility Bill Payment (P2B)    Others    38.13%    Key Trends   SME Sector     25%  to GDP    Contribution     80%    Contribution to     employment    30%    SME claim access   to finance as major     barrier    USD 1.84 Bn  Total credit gap in     SME sector    USD 2 288  Average credit   gap per SME    Status of Financial Inclusion in Bangladesh1 2      Bangladesh is both an inspiration and a challenge for policymakers and development practitioners. While   efforts in poverty reduction to date have been extraordinary  Bangladesh still faces daunting challenges  with   nearly 51 million people living below the poverty line. With about 58 million (36%) of its residents between the   young ages of 15–35 years  there is a massive opportunity for technologydriven interventions in Bangladesh.   According to World Economic Forum (WEF)  Bangladesh is one of the top performing economies in Asia. It   has maintained an average annual growth rate of over 6% between the 1960s and the 1990s. Bangladesh is   the world’s eighth most densely populated country and is home to more than 163 million people or around   2.2% of the world’s population. The 2017 WEF Global Competitiveness Report states that out of 137 countries    Bangladesh ranks 77th based on the availability and 86th on the affordability of financial services.   Banking penetration in Bangladesh remains low  with over 70% of its population having no bank account.   Data from the World Bank reveals that there were only 8.2 branches per 100 000 adults in the country in 2015    explaining in part the low account ownership. Efforts by Bangladesh Bank to increase include the ‘Taka 10’   nofrills accounts  introduced in 2010. These accounts targeted to promote Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) and   aimed to include the financially excluded. However  by 2015  only 14 000 accounts had been opened.   On the other hand  mobile phones saw rapid adoption. As of April 2017  Bangladesh had over 117 million   mobile phone subscribers. Given the rapid adoption of mobile phones in the country  Bangladesh Bank issued   guidelines for Mobile Financial Services (MFS) in 2011 to ensure access to financial services to the unbanked.   Since then  the MFS sector in Bangladesh has experienced significant growth in terms of the number of users    as well as the number of agents that provide mobile money services.   Bangladesh now accounts for more than 8% of total mobile money accounts worldwide. However  the pattern   of transactions suggests that the MFS market in Bangladesh is yet to move beyond basic transactions  such as   cashin  cashout and payments – many of which are conducted overthecounter by unregistered users. Over  thecounter transactions those that customers perform through an agent’s mobile money account. However    overthecounter (OTC) is declining  the proportion of OTC users reduced to 70% in 2016 from 77% in 2014. As   of September 2017  there were over 770 000 agents in the country with more than 57 million registered MFS   users. Of the registered customers  52% are active users.3    The government has shown a firm commitment to introducing policies aimed at advancing financial inclusion.   In  2011   Bangladesh  signed  the  Maya  Declaration  –  an  initiative  for  developing  frameworks  for  financial   inclusion  and Access to Information (a2i)  a thinktank of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) is currently in the   process of drafting a National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS) document. The NFIS will lay out an actionable   roadmap for various stakeholders to achieve financial inclusion objectives. Bangladesh Bank is in the process   of releasing revised  comprehensive guidelines on MFS. We expect these guidelines to clarify the central bank’s   vision on MFS  interoperability  entry of nonbank players  ways to promote competition  and contours of a risk   management framework.     1.  The MicroSave report  titled Leveraging Technology for Meaningful Financial Inclusion in Asia  provides a detailed status on financial inclusion     and usage of financial services in Bangladesh.     2.  This document contains a few hyperlinks and readers are advised to read the document in conjunction with them.  3.  An MFS user who has conducted at least one financial or nonfinancial transaction in three consecutive months (90 days) is considered an     active user.    2    Country Focus Note   BangladeshKey Trends in Financial Sector Usage1    We can summarise the current use of the key financial products in Bangladesh as follows.    1    2    3    Limited Savings at Formal Financial Institutions  The Global Findex Database suggests that by 2014  around 7.4% of adults had been saving at a financial   institution4. This had halved in three years  as around 16.6% maintained a savings account with a financial   institution in 2011. In contrast  approximately 17% of adults prefer to save using informal means5. Access to   the formal financial system remains a challenge particularly for the rural poor in Bangladesh. Saving at a   financial institution3 for the rural Bangladeshis witnessed a steep decline from 16% in 2011 to 5% in 2014.    Complicated Process to Avail Credit Products  Out of 137 countries  Bangladesh ranked 85th in terms of ease of access to loans. Less than half of the   population use credit services. Credit availed from formal financial institutions3 witnessed a steep decline   from 23.3% in 2011 to 9.9% in 2014. In Bangladesh  banks are often reluctant to lend money to poorer   borrowers in the agricultural sector — where nearly half of the population earns its income. Collateral  based loans and complex application and authorisation processes are the two main constraints that   limit lowincome customers from using formal credit services. Onefourth of the population borrow from   friends and family. The lack of customised and affordable formal credit products exclude the poor and   push them towards friends and family and informal lenders to meet their credit demand.  Bangladesh has a long association with microfinance that has led the way to reach out to lowincome   people  in  rural  and  urban  areas.  The  growth  in  the  microfinance  sector   in  terms  of  the  number  of   microfinance  institutions  (MFI)  as  well  as  total  membership   was  phenomenal  during  the  1990s  and   continues  until  today.  As  of  June  2014   the  microfinance  sector  comprised  of  33.73  million  clients   (including 8.62 million clients of Grameen Bank) with a total loan outstanding of BDT 403 billion (~USD   4.8 billion) and savings of BDT 237 billion (~USD 2.8 billion).   Four  types  of  institutions  are  involved  in  microfinance  activities   which  include  Grameen  Bank   non  governmental  organisations  (such  as  BRAC  and  ASA)   commercial  and  specialised  banks  (such  as   Bangladesh Krishi Bank and Rajshahi Krishi Unnayan Bank)  and governmentsponsored microfinance   projects (such as Bangladesh Rural Development Board and Swanirvar Bangladesh). These MFIs mostly   provide small  collateralfree oneyear term loans to individuals belonging to joint liability groups. Though   there are more than a thousand institutions that offer microcredit services  the top10 large MFIs and   Grameen Bank have cornered 87% of total savings of the sector and provided 81% of the total outstanding   loan in the microfinance sector.    Prevalence of and Preference for OTC Services for Payments and   Transfers  In Bangladesh  there has been an increasing shift towards mobile money for internal remittances. About   50% of remittances are through formal channels. However  customers continue to conduct around 70%   of all mobile money transactions using OTC services. Most customers prefer the OTC service  which is how   the product was introduced  and because it is easier for those who struggle with literacy  or find it difficult   to navigate the mobile money menus and fear they will mistakenly send money to the wrong mobile   money account.    4.  Financial institutions include Banks  MFS providers  MFA regulated microfinance institutions  credit unions and cooperatives.  5.  Informal financial institutions include ROSCAs or Lottery Samitis (informal women groups or networks)  moneylenders  or other unregulated     financial access points  or both.    3    Country Focus Note   BangladeshChallenges that Limit Meaningful Financial Inclusion    Sectoral Challenges    •  Access to Capital  High interest rates for bank loans pose a problem for the emerging fintech sector. Challenge   fund grants are either not significant enough to support scaling up or are restricted to the development of   specific donor objectives that do not match business priorities. Angel investors are the best available option    but this sector remains immature.     •  Need for Interoperability  The Bangladesh Bank is seeking accounttoaccount interoperability  which would   enable seamless money movement across MFS  banks  and other platforms. Their goal is to incentivise more   commercial payments receivers and providers to come on board  which would increase use cases  and   reduce friction and inconvenience for customers.   ‘Cash is King’ Market  Though there is high penetration of mobile phones  people depend on cashbased   transactions and assisted OTC transactions. This is due to a strong preference for cash and a lack of awareness   of  and trust in  DFS.     •     •  Digital Literacy  Despite a high penetration of mobiles  people are using them either to communicate or to   access social media platforms or both. Complex processes and User Interface coupled with a limited trust   and understanding of technology for financial services has marred the uptake and regular usage of MFS   among low and middleincome customers.    •  Distribution  or  Spread  of  FSPs   Agency  banking  is  yet  to  pick  up  in  Bangladesh.  Banks  have  not  built   relationships with private players  such as MNOs or MFIs  which have a deep penetration in rural areas.   Limited interaction between key regulators  such as Bangladesh Bank and Bangladesh Telecommunication   Regulatory Commission  has also impeded the growth of MFS.    •  Lack of Innovation  Banks often rely on traditional products and services and could focus more on product   innovation.  This  has  resulted  in  an  immense  competition  in  the  market  over  a  handful  of  products.   Bancassurance  in particular  is yet to take off  despite its massive potential.    Challenges Related to the Design and Delivery of Financial Services    Product    Outstanding Constraints    •  Limited internet connectivity and high costs of mobile internet access have restricted the     uptake of MFS among lowincome customers.    Payments and     Transfers    •  Regulations prevent players such as MNOs  which have a countrywide footprint  from     entering the MFS space  limiting access to 65% of the population. Currently  MFS platforms in   Bangladesh are sponsored and led exclusively by the scheduled commercial banks  as they are   members of the payments system.    •  Lowincome customers and microenterprises cannot avail formal credit services because they   are unable to offer the necessary collateral or navigate the complex documentation processes.    •  The high cost of credit and “hassle factors” such as poor quality of service  delays in approval     and disbursement result in informal service providers dominating the supply  especially for the   lowerincome segment.    •  The absence of a credit bureau makes it difficult for suppliers of credit to understand the needs     of borrowers with multiple loans and their indebtedness.    Credit    4    Country Focus Note   BangladeshProduct    Outstanding Constraints    •  LMI customers save little with the formal sector. This is because of deterring factors  such as the   small size of their savings and irregular timing of such savings  the need to walk great distances   to the branches  and long waiting times coupled with either with complex processes or a   mandate to maintain minimum balances or both.    Savings    •  Most of the savings from lowincome families go towards the purchase of gold and livestock.   Moreover  the savings products offered by MFIs are not very customerfriendly with conditions   such as lockin  partial withdrawal  among others.    •    Bangladesh’s insurance penetration at 0.5% remains one of the lowest in South Asia where other   countries record a rate of 3.5%. Most insurance companies are located in urban areas and there   are a very few branches in rural areas  leaving the large majority of the population unserved.     •   There is still considerable unmet demand for traditional and microinsurance products among   LMI customers as current insurance offerings are concentrated on the higher end of the market.  •     Despite the growth of microinsurance in the country  many lowincome customers lack awareness     of insurance products.    Insurance    Opportunities to Unlock the Potential of Fintech    In Bangladesh  licensed MFS players primarily lead the fintech ecosystem. Activities such as cashin  cash  out  and P2P transfer constitute almost 95% of MFS transactions. Other activities like salary disbursement   and utility bill payments  among others  constitute a mere 5%. Other players in the ecosystem include IT   platform or solution providers  such as CloudWell and SSLCommerz. There are a few financial service providers   (FSPs) who use the technology provided by the MFS players or IT platform or solution providers to distribute   their products and services  such as Shakti Foundation for Disadvantaged Women. In addition  organisations   like MicroEnsure  in partnership with local institutions  has introduced microinsurance to the lowerincome   segment.   The fintech players in Bangladesh have a huge potential to address most of the constraints highlighted before.   Outlined in the following section are some ways in which fintechs can address productspecific challenges.    Digital Literacy and Meaningful Financial Awareness  Limited digital literacy and financial awareness in the target market remains a significant challenge. Poor   financial awareness limits the ability of the lowerincome segments to make informed decisions concerning   their household and business finances. In reality  digital literacy  to varying degrees  is a constraint even in   countries such as China and Malaysia that have developed financial systems. Fintechs in Bangladesh can gain   tremendously by creating intuitive interfaces and usecases to help people learn how to use technology to   manage their finances.     Customised Products to Suit Cashflows of the Lowincome Segment  Fintechs can develop mobile applications that link to a goalbased savings account. Customers can use such   applications to set aside funds typically used to meet vital welfare or consumption needs. Examples include   ‘Save 4 School’ from Econet in Zimbabwe  which helps smallholder families plan ahead for their children’s   school fee payments and ‘Goal+’ from Amret in Cambodia. The Goal+ product allows customers to save for   longterm goals  such as purchasing cows  meeting wedding expenses  and education. Customers sign up   and deposit via mobile tellers or thirdparty agents equipped with a smartphone or tablet app.   SAJIDA Foundation  an MFI of Bangladesh offers Astha  which is a voluntary savings deposit scheme. Astha   allows SAJIDA Foundation members to save toward a purchase or financial goal. Members can deposit small   amounts for a specified length of time while earning atmarket interest. SAJIDA redesigned the Astha product     5    Country Focus Note   Bangladeshwith multiple features such as minimum balance  multiple term lengths  tiered interest rates  and support in   setting goals. With these features  the adoption of Aastha accounts has increased.    Credit Risk Assessment for Lowincome Segment and SMEs  Many  active  fintechs  have  been  using  nontraditional  data  to  enable  creditscoring.  Types  of  such  non  traditional data include payment transaction data  insights based on psychometric tests  telecom data  and   geoposition information. These alternative data sources help fintechs assess the credit risks of individuals   who may lack credit history  established formal banking relationships  or verifiable sources of income. As a   result  the fintechs can tap into the market of previously excluded potential borrowers who rely on informal   sources for loans.    Credit Delivery through Alternate Channels  Peertopeer (P2P) lending fintechs can be an effective alternate channel that can address the credit demand   of borrowers. These digitally enabled players bring in borrowers – typically SMEs that seek capital injection and   lenders interested in competitive returns. A key advantage offered by P2P solutions include the flexibility to   offer capital in variable amounts at lower interest rates compared to informal sources of loans  in an effective   and transparent manner.    Customised Microinsurance Product Delivery and Servicing for Lowincome   Segments  Microinsurance services offered through mobile phones – mobile microinsurance – offers increased process   efficiency through reduced turnaround times and lower paperwork. Mobile microinsurance makes lowvalue    highvolume transactions more viable. Fintechs such as BIMA and MicroEnsure act as endtoend providers.   They have tied up with MNOs that enable mobile money platforms or airtime used as a payment mode  if   applicable. Fintechs  such as TongJuBao  use Internetbased platforms that allow groups to vote on premiums.    Looking Ahead    While basic access to banking services and products remains a challenge in Bangladesh  the government has   shown firm commitment through conducive policies aimed at advancing financial inclusion. The microfinance   movement has led the way in terms of reaching out to the masses. However  since the poverty remains acute   in Bangladesh  the importance of microfinance is crucial especially for the lowerincome segments located in   the northern and southern part of the country Bangladesh.   Mobile financial services has the potential to be a gamechanger in Bangladesh but reliance on OTC poses   concerns. Technologydriven and innovative solutions are expected to emerge which will further augment   meaningful financial inclusion in the country and facilitate the integration of underserved segments into the   formal financial services sector.    Supported by     This note is part of a series highlighting the findings of a MicroSave   study supported by MetLife Foundation. The study focused on   understanding how technology could be meaningfully leveraged to   advance financial inclusion across six markets in Asia – Bangladesh    China  Malaysia  Myanmar  Nepal  and Vietnam.    6    Country Focus Note   Bangladesh