b'herein file 4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018 BIG DATA AND FINTECH IN ISLAMIC FINANCE PROSPECTS AND CHALLENGES Surianom Miskam Department of Law Faculty of Shariah and Law surianom@kuis.edu.my Siti Hawa Radin Eksan Kolej Universiti Islam Antarabangsa Selangor (KUIS) Department of Economics and Management Faculty of Management and Muamalah Kolej Universiti Islam Antarabangsa Selangor (KUIS) sitihawa@kuis.edu.my Abstract     Financial  technology  (FinTech)  is  one  of  the  recent  innovations  in  the  financial  service industry including Islamic finance and is evolving at a rapid speed driven in part by the sharing economy favourable regulation and information technology. FinTech has in some ways modified the financial landscape by facilitating the Big Data applications and complex calculations  to  financial  decisions. Big Data applications are  becoming  more  prevalent  in Islamic finance as a basis for financial services including financing takaful investment and wealth management by exploiting the value of information. This paper will examine how Big Data  is  being  used  in  the  Islamic  financial  service  sector to  improve  information  sharing operational efficiency and customer experience. In addition the prospects and challenges of Big  Data  and  FinTech  in  Islamic  finance  will  be  identified  and  discussed.  This  paper  is expected to provide an insight into the application of Big Data and its nexus with FinTech in the Islamic financial service.  Keywords Big Data FinTech Islamic finance financial service   1. In recent years FinTech has become one of the recent innovations in the financial service industry and is evolving at a rapid speed driven mainly by the sharing economy favorable regulations and advances in information technology. FinTech began to attract the attention of regulators industry players and customers since 2014 (Arner Barberis & Buckley 2015).   FinTech  is  reshaping  consumers\'  expectations  of  financial  services.  While  Islamic finance  has  made  significant  progress  domestically  and  globally  the  next  growth  phase requires  the  industry  to  rise  the  FinTech  wave.  At  present  Islamic  FinTech  is  still  in  its infancy and growing. There is increasing number of FinTech startups innovation labs and incubators  that  are  based  on  the  values  and  principles  of  Islamic  finance.  The  case  is compelling for Islamic finance to take on a more prominent role in the FinTech ecosystem (BNM 2017).  From  artificial  intelligence  to  cryptocurrency  rapid  advances  in  FinTech  are transforming the financial services landscape creating both opportunities and challenges for consumers  service  providers  and  regulators  alike.  Thus  the  objective  of  this  paper  is  to examine how Big Data is being used in the Islamic financial service sector and its nexus with FinTech.  This  paper  is  organised  as  follows  Section  2  reviews  relevant  literatures  on  Big Introduction  236 \\x0c4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018 Literature Review  Data  and  FinTech  in  Islamic  finance.  Section  3  analyses  the  nexus  between  Big  Data  and FinTech in Islamic finance. Section 4 discusses the prospects and challenges brought about by Big Data and FinTech in Islamic finance industry. Section 5 concludes the paper.  2. The world of Big Data analytics is a rapidly growing one. Prickett Morgan (2012) highlights that the Big Data market is expected to grow at an annual compound growth rate of 39.4% and reach a value of $16.9bn by 2015 contrast this to its value of $3.2bn in 2010. It is clear how  quickly  this  technology  is  being  adopted  and  the  effect  it  is  having  on  the  business environment. Interestingly the Big Data market is growing at a rate seven times that of the whole of the rest of the information technology (IT) market.   Big Data bring new opportunities to modern society and challenges to data scientist. On the other hand Big Data hold great promises for discovering sublet population patterns and heterogeneities that are not possible with smallscale data. Big Data promise new levels of scientific  discovery  and  economic  value.  In  the  era  of  Big  Data\\xe2\\x80\\x94a  term  that  refers  to  the explosion  of  available  information  such  a  Big  Data  movement  is  driven  by  the  fact  that massive amounts of very highdimensional or unstructured data are continuously produced and stored with much cheaper cost than they used to be. For instance in genomics we have seen a dramatic drop in price for whole genome sequencing (Stern 2010). This is also true in other  areas  such  as  social  media  analysis  biomedical  imaging  highfrequency  finance analysis of surveillance videos and retail sales. The existing trend that data can be produced and stored more massively and cheaply is likely to maintain or even accelerate in the future (Donoho 2000). This trend will have deep impact on science engineering and business. For instance scientific advances are becoming more and more datadriven and researchers will more  and  more  think  of  themselves  as  consumers  of  data.  The  massive  amounts  of  highdimensional  data  bring  both  opportunities  and  new  challenges  to  data  analysis.  Valid statistical analysis for Big Data is becoming increasingly important.  In  recent  years  there  has  been  an  increasing  amount  of  literature  on  Big  Data  and FinTech from different jurisdictions. Lee and Shin (2018) for instance introduces a historical view of FinTech and discusses the ecosystem of the FinTech sector. In addition technical and managerial challenges for both FinTech startups and traditional financial institutions are also examined.  There is a considerable amount of literature has been published on the evolution and development of Big Data and FinTech. Recent evidence suggests that United States has the largest FinTech market followed by the United Kingdom Canada India and Germany at a considerable distance (Haddad & Hornuf 2016). Evolution of FinTech and outlook for the sector and the regulatory implications of its growth has also been analysed with focus given on focusses on the interlinked evolution of financial services and technology in particular information technology (Arner et al. 2015) and the effect of 2007/2009 financial crisis that has triggered new regulatory initiatives and has accelerated existing ones (Philippon 2016).   Many studies have identified the impact of FinTech in the financial services industry worldwide (Guild 2017; Wonglimpiyarat 2017). Romanova & Kudinska (2016) for instance focus  on  the  development  of  the  financial  innovation  and  technology  market  provide assessment of existing practices applied in the field of FinTech and identify the main risks related to the development of FinTech and financial innovations the banks are exposed to. It is  also  found  that  customer  trust  data  security  and  the  user  design  interface  affect  the adoption  of  FinTech  in  the  industry  (Stewart  &  J\\xc3\\xbcrjens  2018).  This  development  has  the potential  to  shrink  the  role  and  relevance  of  today\\xe2\\x80\\x99s  banks  and  simultaneously  help  them   237 \\x0c4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018  create better faster cheaper services that make them an even more essential part of everyday life for institutions and individuals (Skan Dickerson & Masood 2015).  A  clearsighted  assessment  of  regulatory  risk  is  fundamental  to  FinTech  success because regulatory uncertainty makes business planning very difficult and the financial and compliance cost of regulation has been sufficient to see some new companies exit the market (Allen & Overy 2017). FinTech is an international issue thus policymakers need to consider implications  for  common  standards  and  legal  principles  to  the  extent  that  they  align  with national priorities (Dong He et al. 2017).  It is argued that FinTech becomes an alternative transaction for community because it makes  easier  for  people  to  access  financial  products  simplify  transactions  and  increase financial literacy (Wijayanti & Pradipta 2017) Despite the fact that FinTech has attracted a significant amount of attention a continuous use of FinTech is still doubtful. Some users are skeptical of continuing to use FinTech because it has considerable risks (Ryu 2018).  So far however there has been little discussion about Big Data and FinTech in Islamic finance. Thus this study attempts to provide an insight into the application of Big Data and FinTech in Islamic finance and the prospects and challenges facing the industry.  3. 3.1  Big Data Garner  IT  Glossary  defines  Big  Data  as  high  volume  high  velocity  and/high  variety information assets that demand costeffective innovative forms of informations processing that enable enhanced insight decision making and process automation. There are four main V\\xe2\\x80\\x99s that have been identified to define the characteristics of Big Data. A brief overview of these V\\xe2\\x80\\x99s is presented below (MayerSchonberger and Cukier 2013).  (1)   Volume The volume of Big Data is generally very large and Big Data is characterised  mainly by its volume. Chaudhari (2012) has identified that the volume of Big Data is continuously  increasing  and  becoming  large  in  nature  because  the  data  has  been  in  storage since years and the use of social media leads to the generation of unstructured   data which contributes to the volume.  (2)   Velocity  Another  unique  characteristic  that  differentiates  between  Big  Data  and regular  data  is  the  velocity  or  speed  at  which  it\\xe2\\x80\\x99s  generated.  Because  of  the  use  of Internet mobile phones and other technologies Big Data is generated at a very high speed (Snijders et al. 2012).  Big Data and FinTech The Nexus (3)   Variety Big Data also exists in different varieties formats and structures. It comes in structured  as  well  as  nonstructured  manner.  The  data  system  can  be  obtained  in  formats such as text data data obtained in the form of images or the data feed different  obtained  from Internet (MayerSchonberger and Cukier 2013).  (4)   Variability  The  inconsistent  and  variable  nature  of  Big  Data  is  a  characteristic  that defines the nature of Big Data. The data becomes highly variable in nature because the data obtained from social media and that obtained from mobile phones and Internet can significantly  change  with  time  and  never  remains  the  same.  This  not  only  makes  it difficult  to  predict  data  load  but  the  management  and  analysis  also  becomes challenging. The  Big  Data  era  makes  several  other  new  applications  becoming  possible  which With  more  personal  data  collected  commercial  enterprises  are  able  to  provide personalized services adapt to individual preferences. For example Target (a retailing   include  (1)   Personalised services.     238 \\x0c4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018 transportation  system individualised treatments. in  ancient  Roman  visualizing company  in  the  United States)  is  able  to  predict  a  customer\\xe2\\x80\\x99s need  by analyzing  the collected transaction records.  Internet security.  When a networkbased attack takes place historical data on network traffic may allow us to efficiently identify the source and targets of the attacks.    (2)    (3)   Personalised medicine.  More  and  more  healthrelated  metrics  such  as  individual\\xe2\\x80\\x99s  molecular  characteristics  human  activities  human  habits  and  environmental  factors  are  now  available.  Using  these  pieces  of  information  it  is  possible  to  diagnose  an  individual\\xe2\\x80\\x99s  disease  and  select  (iv)   Digital humanities.   Nowadays  many  archives  are  being  digitized.  For  example  Google  has  scanned millions   of  books  and  identified  about  every  word  in  every  one  of  those  books.  This produces   massive amount of data and enables addressing topics in the humanities such as the mapping  the  economic connections of  ancient  China  studying  how  natural  languages  evolve  overtime  or analyzing historical   events (Jian 2014).   As far as Malaysia is concerned Big Data applications are becoming more prevalent in recent years. According to report by IDC Malaysia has progressed within the adhoc stage in the  Big  Data  Analytics  MaturityScape  from  2014  to  2015.  This  Big  Data  and  Analytics (BDA) MaturiyScape assessment study was commissioned by Malaysian Digital Economic Corporation  (MdeC)  (Peter  Kua  2016)  to  understand  the  current  maturity  of  the  BDA adoption in seven selected industries in Malaysia. This study was a continuation of the BDA MaturityScape  assessment  done  in 2014  by  International  data  Corporation  (IDC).  IDC  has provided  an  analysis  of  BDA  maturity  in  Malaysia  compared  to  the  APeJ  (Asia  Pacific excluding  Japan)  in  five  key  dimensions  \\xe2\\x80\\x93  Intent  People  Process  Technology  and Data/Metrics.  This including Communications/Media  Financial  Services  Manufacturing  &  Construction  &  Resources Public  Sector  Services/Utilities  Transportation  and  Wholesale/Retail.  It  was  found  that Malaysian  organizations  have  progressed  within  the  Adhoc  stage  (experimental  siloed proofsofconcept undefined processes) in IDC\\xe2\\x80\\x99s Big Data Analytics MaturityScape (Stage 1 out of 5) but they still lag behind leading countries like Singapore Australia and Hong Kong in the APeJ region. Diagram 1 shows the relative position of the countries involved in the assessment.  across  various study  was conducted industries  239  \\x0c       4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018 Diagram 1 Big Data and Analytics (BDA) MaturityScape 3.2  FinTech  Financial  technology  or  "FinTech"  is  originated  from  the  \'Financial  Services  Technology Consortium" a project initiated by Citigroup back in early 1990s to facilitate technological cooperation efforts (Rom\\xc4\\x81nova & Kudinska 2016).  FinTech refers to a dynamic segment at the  intersection  of  the  financial  services  and  technology  sectors  where  technologyfocused startups and new market entrants innovate the products and services currently provided by the traditional financial services industry (PwC 2017).   FinTech today consists of five major areas (1) finance and investment (2) operations and  risk  management  (3)  payments  and  infrastructure  (4)  data  security  and  monetization and (5) customer interface (Arner et al. 2015). FinTech has also been characterised as the utilisation  of  mobile  devices  and  other  technology  platform  to  access  a  bank  account transaction notifications and debit and credit alerts by means of push notifications vis SMS or other forms of electronic notification (Stewart & J\\xc3\\xbcrjens 2018).   3.3  Big Data and FinTech in Islamic Finance Generally Big Data comprises of all data gathered by electronic devices both structured and unstructured  which  can  be  processed  with  certain  algorithms  and  analysis  methods  to organise  and  extract  valuable  pieces  of  information  about  the  user.  This  data  can  be  used afterwards in various scopes depending on the parties involved. In the FinTech sector Big Data can be used to anticipate customer behaviour but also to create protective strategies and policies for alternative banks and financial institutions from all around the world.   As far as FinTech in Islamic finance is concerned FinTech solutions should observe Islamic ethics in transactions such as transparency fairness and justice avoid cheating fraud misrepresentation  etc.  The  regulators  should  also  take  into  consideration  the  Shariah compliance of FinTech operations and practice to minimise noncompliance risk and ensure that FinTech will have a proper environment in which to operate (Laldin 2018). FinTech in Islamic  finance  shall  not  vary  from  the  Shariah  compliance  requirements  of  any  other financial contracts. FinTech based services need their own regulations to oversee its activities and operations to maintain the confidence of Islamic finance stakeholders fulfils the needs of society and ultimately to achieve Maqasid Shariah.  Islamic finance has vast opportunities to leverage on technology as a catalyst to scale up businesses and enhance operational efficiency which includes understanding the potential of block chain technology and its associated risk to enable its effective adoption that is both cost and time saving. FinTech gives the potential to provide value added and customer focus services through the delivery of customised solution using biometric technologies Big Data and  predictive  analytics.  FinTech  also  gives  the  potential  to  improve  market  and  system efficiency for backend operations that includes the use of predictive analytics to undertake real  time  risk  simulation  and  management;  and  the  potential  to  enhance  compliance  and regulatory  productivity  by  automating  compliance  tasks  and  reduce  operational  risks associated  with  meeting  compliance  and  reporting  obligations  by  the  regulators  (BNM 2017).  Thus the global requirement for digital infrastructure investment is an opportunity for Islamic  banks  asset  managers  and  investors  to  harness  through  Islamic  FinTech  both  in  240 \\x0c4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018  Islamic and nonIslamic economies. Islamic FinTech offers the opportunity to transform the lives  of  millions  of  people  globally  and  to  help  transform  the  Islamic  FinTech  hubs  into 4thIndustrial Revolution digital leaders (Wintermeyer 2017).   3.4  Use Cases of Big Data in Islamic Financial Service Big Data is widely used by Islamic financial institutions to assess credit and market risks. Big Data  has  the  advantage  of  identifying  potential  risk  in  terms  of  bad  investments  or  bad payers. While Big Data cannot completely prevent such risks it can identify those at early stages and prevent further development into risky paths. Big Data can help companies in the financial  industry  tailor  programs  and  strategies  that  will  assess  the  potential  risks  and minimise those risks.  Big  Data  does  not  only  helps  IFIs  to  better  understand  the  spending  habits  of  each customer but also helps the IFIs to detect fraud and financial crimes involving its system. In this situation when unusual activity is detected by the system the holder of the account can be  easily  contacted  or  informed  about  a  transaction  that  seems  suspicious  thus  early detection of fraud is possible to prevent greater losses to the customers.  Big Data applications can easily analyse spending habits of the customers depending on age gender and social class. The most valuable customers namely those spending the most money can also be identified. This will generate higher levels of customer satisfaction as people  generally  seek  highly  personalized  offers  and  financial  products  thus  allowing  the IFIs to offer products that will meet the demands of the potential customers.  In  relation  to  compliance  Big  Data  is  enabling  banks  to  conduct  stress  testing  data analysis and aggregation for regulatory reporting more rapidly. Big Data algorithms can also help deal with compliance audit and reporting issues in order to streamline the operations and remove the managerial overhead. Recent  developments  in  the  Big  Data  in  Islamic  finance  have  seen  introduction  of  product innovations to name but a few for instance Wahed which is based in the USA has launced  Islamic  RoboAdvisor  with  access  to  Shariah  complaint  Exchange  Traded  Funds (EFTs) (Wintermeyer 2017). Roboadvisor is a form of artificial intelligence but their value proposition lies in their ability to automatically pick out stock investments based on the kind of investment portfolio that an investor prefers according to their risk profile.  Another  example  is  BIMBArabesque  I  Global  launched  by  BIMB  Investment Malaysia in November 2017. This multicurrency global Shariah environmental social and governance  equity  fund  is  the  first  Islamic  global  equity  fund  in  Malaysia  that  applies artificial intelligence and Big Data technology in its investment process. The process removes human biases and intuition to construct the best combination of investment portfolio from a universe of 77000 global listed companies to form a portfolio of up to 100 stocks daily by applying  more  than  1600  selection  criteria  that  process  more  than  100  billion  data  points (TheSunDaily 2018).  4. The Islamic finance market size now within the range of USD1.66 trillion to USD2.1 trillion was expected to rise to USD3.4 trillion by end of 2018. Yet finance technology (FinTech) have  yet  to  commensurate  this  market  boom  (AlMontser  2017).  While  Islamic  financial institutions have successfully embraced more conventional aspects of FinTech it will take time for more modern FinTech to be widely accepted. Time will tell but with technological innovations  increasingly  transforming  the  way  people  carry  out  financial  transactions  and with  Islamic  finance  spreading  around  the  world  Shariahcompliant  FinTech  is  likely  to become an increasingly visible part of the global FinTech landscape (Gillet 2017). Prospects and Challenges   241 \\x0c4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018   Business has to drive the Big Data solution at firms because they are ones who have the questions  that  need  answering.  It  is  argued  that  data  supply  chain  can  deliver  a  better architecture in terms of cost Technology is evolving fast and producing even better results for Big Data and Big Data deployment. Big Data architecture is very flexible especially with new  cloud  offerings  and  IFIs  are  using  Big  Data  in  a  variety  of  ways  to  deliver  better business  outcomes  for  the  organisations.  With  the  evolution  of  the  Internet  of  things  the future of Big Data is sound and promising. However  the  rapid  innovation  introduced  by  Big  Data  and  FinTech  entering  into  financial  industry  in  general  and  the  Islamic  finance  industry  in  particular  can  lead  to disruptive innovation and conflict if not properly regulated by relevant authorities (Wijayanti & Pradipta 2017). Among the challenges related to Big Data and FinTech are (1)   Ethical Issues One of the biggest problems observed while using Big Data is ethical issues.  With  the  availability  of  information  and  data  via  different  mediums  one  ethical problem that always arises is that of data privacy. It is ethically wrong to share information related to people with a third person and hence it is important to protect and safeguard the privacy of data collected from people to maintain information ethics.  (2)   Trust  Trust  is  another  big  issue  related  to  Big  Data  in  organizations.  Lynch  (2008) highlights  the  lack  of  trust  that  exists  in  organizations  which  prohibits  departments  from using  Big  Data  collected  in  other  organizations.  It  has  also  been  observed  that  often management  and  people  do  not  trust  information  gathered  with  the  help  of  Big  Data  and hence the credibility issues keep on arising.   (3)   Security Though the development of Internet has connected people all throughout the world it has also become easier for people to gain access to personal information of people by hacking into their accounts. Hence keeping Big Data secured to avoid it being misused is one of the biggest challenges associated with Big Data (Rabl et al. 2012).  (4)    Audit  Auditing  the  Big  Data  obtained  from  the  Internet  and  other  sources  is  a  huge challenge  and  hence  it  becomes  difficult  for  companies  to  make  use  of  the  data  before ensuring its reliability validity and originality (Howe et al. 2008).  (5)   Governance Governance problems arise in Big Data when the data is not appropriately managed or used well. The issue usually arises because of the versatile nature of Big Data which exhibits high velocity and are usually present in huge volumes. The complex nature of data is what makes it difficult to analyse and manage thus causing governance issues (Rabl et al. 2012).  5.  Conclusion  The demand for FinTech solutions is underscored by the rapid adoption of technology; high levels of mobile usage; rising rates of Internet penetration; an increasingly urban literate and young population; as well as a segment of consumers and SMEs underserved by traditional banking  solutions.  Despite  the  fact  that  FinTech  innovations  bring  many  opportunities  in Islamic finance industry FinTech may lead to a number of issues and challenges from legal and regulatory point of view. The rapid innovation entering into financial industry in general can lead to disruptive innovation if not properly regulated. Thus regulatory and supervisory authorities  should  take  those  issues  and  challenges  into  account  in  order  to  support  the development of a strong and sustainable Islamic financial system.   REFERENCES  AlMontser S. (2017). FinTech in Islamic finance.   Retrieved from https//infocus.wief.org/FinTechinislamicfinance/  242 \\x0c4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018  Allen & Overy. (2017). FinTech. Arner  D.  Barberis  J.  &  Buckley  R.  (2015).  The  Evolution  of  FinTech  A  New  PostCrisis Paradigm. UNSW Law Research Series Research Paper No. 2015/047.  Chaudhari S.(2012) What next? a halfdozen data management research goals for Big Data and the cloud  PODS  \'12  Proceedings  of  the  31st  symposium  on  Principles  of  Database  Systems pp.14 Dong He Ross Leckow Vikram Haksar TOmasso ManciniGriffoli Nigel Jenkisnson M. K. Tanai Khiaonarong  &  Celine  Rochon  H.  T.  (2017).  FinTech  and  Financial  Services  Initial Considerations. IMF Staff Discussion Note SDN/17/05.  Donoho  D.  Highdimensional  data  analysis  the  curses  and  blessings  of  dimensionality.  In  The American Mathematical Society Conference Los Angeles CA United States 7\\xe2\\x80\\x9312 August 2000. Gillet  K.  (2017).  FinTech  and  Islamic  finance  a  mutually  beneficial  match?      Retrieved  from https//www.thebanker.com/Markets/IslamicFinance/FinTechandIslamicfinanceamutuallybeneficialmatch?ct=true Guild  J.  (2017).  FinTech  and  the  Future  of  Finance.  Asian  Journal  of  Public  Affairs. doi10.18009/ajpa.201710 Haddad  C.  &  Hornuf  L.  (2016).  The  Emergence  of  the  Global  FinTech  Market  Economic  and Technological Determinants. CESifo Working Paper No. 6131.  Howe  Costanzo M Fey P Gojobori T Hannick L Hide W Hill DP Kania R Schaeffer M St Pierre S Twigger  S White  O Rhee  SY.  (2008)Big  Data  The  future  of  biocuration.  Nature. 2008 Sep 4;455(7209)4750. doi 10.1038/455047a. Jian qing Fan1\\xe2\\x88\\x97FangHan2 and HanLiu1 Challenges of Big Data analysis. National Science Review Laldin M. A. (2018 3 October 2018). FinTech and Islamic Finance. IFN Islamic Finance News 15 1293\\xe2\\x80\\x933142014 67. Lynch  C.(2008)  Big  Data  How  do  your  data  grow?  Nature [online]  available  at http//www.nature.com/nature/journal/v455/ n7209/full/455028a.html accessed on 08/03/14 MayerSch\\xc3\\xb6nberger V. and Cukier K. (2013) Big Data A Revolution that will Transform how we Live Work and Think Houghton Mifflin Harcourt New York NY. Philippon T. (2016). The FinTech Opportunity. Retrieved from Cambridge  PwC. (2017). Blurred lines How FinTech is shaping Financial Services.  Prickett Morgan T. (2012) IDC Big Data biz worth $16.9 billion by 2015 up from $3.2 bn in 2010. http//www.theregister.co.uk/2012/03/12/idc_cases_big_data/ at [Online]  Available (Accessed on 12/02/14). Rom\\xc4\\x81nova  I.  &  Kudinska  M.  (2016).  Banking  and  FinTech  A  Challenge  or  Opportunity? Contemporary Studies in Economic and Financial Analysis (pp. 2135). Ryu H.S. (2018). What makes users willing or hesitant to use FinTech? The moderating effect of user type. Industrial Management & Data Systems 0000. doi10.1108/imds0720170325 Rabl T. GomezVillamor S. Sadoghi M. and Jacobsen H.A.(2012) Solving Big Data challenges for enterprise application performance management Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment vol.5 no.12 pp.17241735 Skan J. Dickerson J. & Masood S. (2015). The Future of FinTech and Banking.  Snijders C. Matzat U. and Reips U.D.(2012) "Big Data" Big Gaps of Knowledge in the Field of Internet Science International Journal of Internet Science Vol. 7 Issue 1 p15 Stewart  H.  &  J\\xc3\\xbcrjens  J.  (2018).  Data  security  and  consumer  trust  in  FinTech  Innovation  in Germany. Information and Computer Security 0000. doi10.1108/ics0620170039 SteinL.  The case for cloud computing in genome informatics. Genome Biol 2010;11207. TheSunDaily. (2018). BIMB Invest declares 8% yield for BIMBArabesque i Global Dividend Fund 1.      Retrieved  from  http//www.thesundaily.my/news/2018/03/28/bimbinvestdeclares8yieldbimbarabesqueiglobaldividendfund1  243 \\x0c4th Muzakarah Fiqh & International  Fiqh Conference (MFIFC  2018)  Kuala Lumpur 17 October 2018  Wijayanti D. M. & Pradipta H. (2017 6 September 2017). Sharia FinTech Positive Innovation in Consumer Perspective. Paper presented at the International Seminar Academic Network on Competition Policy Bali. Wintermeyer  L.  (2017).  The  Future  Of  Islamic  FinTech  Is  Bright.    Retrieved  from https//www.forbes.com/sites/lawrencewintermeyer/2017/12/08/thefutureofislamicFinTechisbright/#2bf4e55c65fa Wonglimpiyarat  J.  (2017).  FinTech  banking  industry  a  systemic  approach.  Foresight  19(6)  590603. doi10.1108/fs0720170026    244 \\x0c'