here  in file  DESIGN THINKING  THE NEW DNA OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR  HOW BANKS CAN BOOST THEIR GROWTH THROUGH   DESIGN THINKING IN AN ERA OF DEBANKING    REPORT AUTHORS   IESE Business School  Josemaria Siota  Thomas Klueter  Oliver Wyman  Dieter Staib  Sam Taylor  Iñigo Ania    Published in April 2017    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     HOW CAN BANKS BOOST THEIR GROWTH?     THE END OF THE BANKING SECTOR?     INNOVATION  A PROMISING SOLUTION     DESIGN THINKING AT THE CORE OF INNOVATION     FRAMING THE CONCEPT     DESIGN THINKING VERSUS TRADITIONAL BUSINESS THINKING     HOW CAN DESIGN THINKING BE SUCCESSFULLY APPLIED   TO FINANCIAL SERVICES?     DESIGN THINKING PROCESS OVERVIEW     KEY CHALLENGES TO OVERCOME IN THE APPLICATION   OF DESIGN THINKING IN FINANCIAL SERVICES     APPLYING DESIGN THINKING     THE CASE OF THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN BANK     CONCLUSION     DEBANKING IS NOT THE END OF BANKS BUT THE    BEGINNING OF DESIGN THINKING     APPENDIX     METHOD     ADDITIONAL EXHIBITS     2    2    3    4    4    5    6    8    9    13    13    17    17    19    19    20    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     TABLE OF CONTENTSDESIGN THINKING    THE NEW DNA OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR  HOW BANKS CAN BOOST THEIR GROWTH THROUGH   DESIGN THINKING IN A DEBANKING ERA    There is broad concern in the banking industry that an important share of   revenues and the traditional ways of doing business are at risk due to the   emergence of fintech startups that are challenging the established players.   In the current economic environment  banks are looking to adapt and   evolve their business models to meet these challenges and opportunities.   Design Thinking is a useful tool that can help banks in their endeavors.    In this report  we address how Design Thinking can be applied to   the financial services sector  offer a case study of a Design Thinking   project  and identify how the process can be leveraged to capture   additional profit pools.    In doing so  we seek to answer  How can banks boost their growth   by successfully applying Design Thinking in a debanking era?    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     1    HOW CAN BANKS BOOST THEIR GROWTH?    THE END OF THE BANKING SECTOR?    Recently  we returned on a flight to Barcelona from New York where we had taken part   in a panel discussion with members of the leadership team of PayPal  a company that   successfully made the journey from an online payment platform  to challenging established   banks in the payments space  both within and across borders. With $10.84 billion in   revenues in 2016 A PayPal (along with other technology firms such as Google or Amazon)   is trying to establish itself as a nerve center for key financial transactions  both offline and   online. At the same time  banks face more and more competition from emerging fintech   startups  which are using innovative technology to try and chip away at some of the key   transactions of traditional banks.B    The overarching question that occupied our minds on that eighthour flight  from the   vantage point of 35 000 feet above the ground  was  How do traditional banks continue to   grow in the face of the emergence of fintechs that are out to disrupt the banks’ businesses?    The answer is neither easy  nor simple. In the financial services industry  there are several   longterm trends that are reshaping the way the industry operates. These shifts can be   grouped into six different areas     Exhibit 1  Overview of structural trends reshaping the Financial Services industry    Increased regulatory demands  Increased cost of doing business  (ﬁnancial resources and cost)  Narrower opportunity set    Postcrisis environment with lowgrowth perspective  Ultraloose monetary policy (QE and low interest rates)  Anaemic macroeconomic and revenue environment    Sticky cost base   Difficulties in further reducing costs  Complex organizations    Wave of digital disruption  More demands on data  Growing importance of the role of technology    Changes in customer behaviors and dynamics  Lack of trust in the industry  “Digital natives” are redeﬁning the nature of  experience excellence    Increased competition  Increasing disintermediation  New market entrants (ﬁntechs have created tailored   experiences by product/value chain segment)    1  2    3  4  5  6    Source  Prepared by the authors from several sources.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     2    In the introduction to Revenue Growth  Four Proven Strategies C Professor Thales Teixeira   of Harvard Business School writes  “Today’s business environment requires that managers   adapt and change their business models on an ongoing basis. Fastpaced dynamics demand   a constant need for firms to amend their strategies in order to achieve sustained revenue   growth.” But what can leaders do to sustain growth in this volatile  uncertain  complex  and   ambiguous (VUCA1 ) business environment?    INNOVATION  A PROMISING SOLUTION    Corporate entrepreneurship can extend an organization’s competitive advantage through   internally generated innovations that may involve starting up a new business inside an old   one  renewing the existing organization  or changing the rules of competition for an entire   industry.D E In fact  according to the current industry trends that we identified above   (See Exhibit 1)  innovations related to customer experience improvements are becoming   more and more critical  which is why we believe that Design Thinking  as a tool to innovate    will grow in importanace.    In a competitive environment such as the current banking sector  corporate   entrepreneurship is essential for longrange success. Additionally  key innovations are taking   place around the customer experience (such as userfriendly frontends  omnichannel  and   fast response)  so that a thorough design of products and services revolving around the   client and supported by technology  has become critical.    Whether banks think the new fintech players are to be trusted or not or whether they believe   the new trends are passing fads  the risk of sitting by idly and leaving things to chance is   too great. The banks have turned to innovation and begun to incorporate design profiles   into their organizations. As a result  95 percent of the banks analyzed for this study have   rushed to create innovation labs in the past few years within their companies to address the   disruption and adapt to a changing industry landscape.    A key area of investments by banks has been in new talent  such as designers and graphic   artists  to help their organizations innovate. This trend is corroborated in hiring profiles.   According to LinkedIn’s search engine of jobs  98 percent of the 15 403 available   designrelated jobs in financial services in the United States had been posted in the   previous month (September 26  2016).    Case  Capital One – United States  Incorporating design profiles into Financial Services  Capital One is also evidencing the increasing importance that banks are giving to incorporating   Design Thinking into their strategic planning.  In 2014  Capital One hired a new first vice president of design  Daniel Makoski  founder of Google’s   modular project Ara phone  and a member of Google Advanced Technology and Projects group  the   division where most radical innovations and technological advancements take place.F  Later that year  Capital One acquired Adaptive Path  a consulting design firm focused on user experience    showing the importance the bank is placing on increasing customer focus and implementing   Design Thinking across all the value chain.G    1  Volatility  uncertainty  complexity and ambiguity – see Bennett N.  Lemoine J.  “What VUCA Really Means for You ”     Harvard Business Review  2014.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     3    DESIGN THINKING AT THE CORE OF INNOVATION    Exhibit 2  Design Thinking as the combination of analytical and intuitive thinking    ANALYTICAL  THINKING    INTUITIVE  THINKING    DESIGN  THINKING    Source  Adapted from Martin R.  The Design of Business  Why Design Thinking Is the Next Competitive Advantage  Harvard Business   Review Press  2009.    FRAMING THE CONCEPT    Many people think that Design Thinking means going into a room with PostIt notes and   having brainstorming sessions with no clear objective and limited business application.   However  that is far from reality.    Design Thinking is a tool for innovation  which uses a consumercentered approach that   puts the discovery of highly nuanced  even tacit  consumer needs at the forefront of the   innovation process. Beyond consumer needs  it takes into consideration feasibility  including   both the available technological landscape (can we do it?) and viability (will it have a   commercial market?).H I    While Design Thinking may seem radical and new  it has been in use for a some time. The   history of Design Thinking can be traced back to the Participatory Design in the 1960s  a   movement that was characterized by the quick development of software prototypes and that   incorporated customer input into the development phase.J Participatory Design gave way to   UserCentered Design in the 1970s  which focused more on the needs and interests of end   users by placing them in the center of the process.K    In the 1980s  Design Thinking started to be seen as an alternative way to tackle problem   solving  as stated in Nigel Cross’s Designerly Ways of Knowing paper in 1982. In 1987  Peter   Rowe published a book called  Design Thinking  coining the phrase.L Finally  in the 1990s   Design Thinking’s popularity soared  and it started to be used for business purposes on a   regular basis with positive impact.    Experts in the earlier literature have established the link between the use of Design Thinking   and firm performance.M In fact  according to the Design Management Institute’s Design   Value Index  “designled companies have maintained significant stock market advantage    outperforming the S&P [500 stock index] by an extraordinary 211 percent” from 2005   to 2015.N    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     4    Few would dispute that the use of Design Thinking and its incorporation into organizations’   innovation efforts create value for customers and build loyalty. Nonetheless  how to make   Design Thinking work and be effective in the banking sector is an open question.    DESIGN THINKING VERSUS TRADITIONAL BUSINESS THINKING    We will put forward what we believe are the key differences are between Design Thinking   and traditional business thinking. Broadly  these differences can be grouped into three   main categories O     • Importance of the end customer   • Ideating environment   • Team composition    Firstly  in Design Thinking  the focus is shifted towards the end user. This is achieved by an   empathy exercise  trying to better understand customer needs and behaviors from their own   perspective. This process results in identifying possible solutions that respond to customers’   problems or satisfy their needs. The solutions are not necessarily designed to justify an   ongoing initiative  but rather to learn from customers to find new initiatives.    Furthermore  research that relies exclusively on data (rather than incorporating subjective   elements like empathy) may allow one to know the facts (what the customers did and when   they did it)  but it does not reveal the rationale and mechanisms driving these actions. By   engaging in Design Thinking and getting closer to the end customer  banks are better able   to understand the reasons behind those actions  and in turn prepare for possible future   patterns of behavior if the same reasons remain in play. This also implies that one ought not   to rely necessarily on what the customer says (that is  customer research)  but rather on   what the customer actually does. This mix of relying on data  intuition  and experimentation   can provide more relevant insights than just validating a problem with the current means of   data analysis.    Secondly  Design Thinking is accompanied with a stimulating atmosphere that promotes   new ideas and encourages the participation of the entire team. Combining creative   brainstorming with structured processes and team diversity creates a fruitful environment   that gives rise to ideas that would not occur to one single person. This is reinforced by the   “test and learn” philosophy that is an integral component of Design Thinking  encouraging   team members to learn from failure and reduce their aversion to risk  facilitating more   frequent breakthroughs and feedback from customers. Such an approach ultimately enables   organizations to think outside the box and frame the future more imaginatively.    Thirdly  Design Thinking doesn’t require that the people solving the problem be experts in   the specific subject  but rather that they have different profiles and diverse ways of thinking   to bring to the process. It also promotes collaboration and the airing of new ideas  thus   reducing the risk of relying on any one person.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     5    In conclusion  the combination of an enduser focus  stimulation of a creative ideas process    and leveraging a diverse team sets the grounds to help organizations challenge their   thought process in developing a competitive advantage.P    Table 1  Differences between Design Thinking and traditional thinking    TRADITIONAL BUSINESS THINKING    DESIGN THINKING    Goal    Management    Innovation    Importance of   end user     • The customer is another important factor to     take into account in the process     • The end user is at the center of everything   • The objective is to understand the underlying      • Customer needs and behaviors come from     customer research (what the customer says)    customer needs and behaviors and the   rationale behind them    Ideating   enenvironment     • Innovation is limited to digital or technology      • Innovation is at the core of the     teams and specific innovation centers    whole organization     • Product launches are carried out at a late      • Prototypes are built and launched to the     stage of the process  after several iterations    and after having had them checked by internal   divisions and performing market research     • Working environment is designed to     promote efficiency     • Products are only subject to minor upgrades   • Validates a problem that exists in order to     assess current states analytically    Team   composition     • Team members tend to have similar     backgrounds and/or experiences   • Similar individuals working in silos    Source  Prepared by the authors.    market whenever an idea is conceived   • Working environment is designed to     foster innovation and generation of new   ideas (lower hierarchical standards    brainstorming sessions)     • Feedback from customers is constantly     incorporated into the prototypes     • Relies on data plus experimentation in order     to assess future possibilities imaginatively     • Teams are specifically made up of people with     radically different profiles and experiences     • Diverse thinkers working together    HOW CAN DESIGN THINKING BE SUCCESSFULLY APPLIED TO   FINANCIAL SERVICES?    Design Thinking should be a cornerstone for how financial services firms devise   strategy – allowing them to evaluate different potential business model scenarios  as well as   the requisite execution capabilities.    At the intersection between Business Modelling and Design Thinking  we find the   “upstream” application of Design Thinking  which makes reference to understanding the   underlying customer needs and behaviors from a leadership perspective and working back   from them to design new products or services.    On the other hand  the intersection between Agile Execution and Design Thinking results   in the “downstream” application of the method  which entails rapidly building out and   prototyping capabilities  according to identified customer needs and behaviors.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     6    Exhibit 3  Upstream of Design Thinking     Exhibit 4  Downstream of Design Thinking    BUSINESS  MODELLING    Upstream    DESIGN   THINKING    DESIGN   THINKING    AGILE     EXECUTION    Downstream    Source  Prepared by the authors.    Banks have begun to set up innovation labs and to apply Design Thinking within their   organizations. However  they struggle to make it part of their daytoday culture and   processes. In fact  63 percent of respondents to a recent survey of chief innovation officers    user experience senior consultants  and individuals tasked with innovation and design said   that Design Thinking initiatives did not advance and lead to successful solutions.Q    Anticipating the firm’s business modelling requires empathy  thinking of people and their   lives  understanding genuine customer behavior  and working backwards from there.    Today  we live in a world of demand scarcity and oversupply  so it is key to understand the   drivers of customer demand to build one’s business strategy. It is necessary to put oneself   in the client’s shoes  and rethink the experience from the end user perspective. Tried and   tested tools such as “Day in the Life Of” (DILO)2 provide a structured way to tackle this   process. By adopting such an approach  banks will be able to focus both on what consumers   really need (not what they say they need) and why (deep needs and goals of customers).   Logically  this requires a change in mindset that implies that end users will have a still   greater importance.    Once the behavior of customers is understood  the firm should adjust its business model and   position itself to develop sustainable competitive advantages and new sources of growth.   Given new life and work standards due to disruptive technologies  financial services firms   need to adapt their business models to build and sustain new competitive advantages.    At this point  the strategic business modelling has been clearly defined  so it is time for   companies to execute and develop their operational processes. To do so  Design Thinking   supports companies in what we define as the “downstream” application of the method. Its   purpose is to reveal capabilities and systematically source and build out capabilities  in rapid     2  DILO is a useful tool in Design Thinking that recreates a specific experience in the way that a customer would live it. Therefore  it     contributes to the purpose of putting the end user at the center of the process.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     7    cycles  with interdisciplinary teams  design experts  software artisans  data scientists  and   consumer insight researchers together with business  IT  and legal/compliance people.    Stakeholders throughout the whole value chain can contribute to prototype generation and   provide feedback to others  thus increasing the potential for putting more ideas into practice   and having them adapted to actual customer behaviors.R    DESIGN THINKING PROCESS OVERVIEW    Practically speaking  the Design Thinking process can be split in the following five stages    Empathize  Define  Ideate  Prototype  and Test.    Exhibit 5  Building capabilities with Design Thinking processes    PROTOTYPE    EMPATHIZE    IDEATE    TEST    DEFINE    Source  Adapted from An Introduction to Design Thinking Process Guide. Hasso Plattner. Institute of Design at Stanford.    The Empathize phase has been covered earlier  as part of the strategic application of Design   Thinking. In processes that are humancentric  empathy is essential to understand the   problems and needs of the end users  and to model the firm’s strategy.    “Define” involves reviewing all the information gathered during the “empathize” stage in   order to define the problem that is to be solved  and start setting goals and objectives.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     8    “Ideate” is encompassed within the operational application of Design Thinking. At this stage    the objective is to think about new ways to solve the problems identified with your business   strategy. It involves generating ideas to come up with innovative solutions. Some specific   techniques such as bodystorm3 or brainwrite4 are commonly used.    “Prototypes” is necessary once the ideas have been generated. It is essential to start   producing cost effective and simple prototypes that generate feedback from potential   users or developers  and give shape to more refined prototypes little by little. In this way  a   conversation around the product is started.    “Test” is the next phase  in which the purpose is to get feedback from the end users. This   stage is related to the Empathize one  since the objective is to understand what the customer   thinks about the product  and why he/she thinks that. Here  DILOs are again very useful    since they enable one to test the product in a reallife setting.S    KEY CHALLENGES TO OVERCOME IN THE APPLICATION OF   DESIGN THINKING IN FINANCIAL SERVICES    The results of our research provide an initial foundation to frame the main challenges that   banks face when applying Design Thinking  and some preliminary solutions to mitigate   them. This research included a review of literature  study of business cases  data analysis    field interviews  and several experiments5 (see Appendix  Method).    We grouped the challenges into three levels  leadership  team  and individual. At the   leadership level  there was a lack of resources to carry out the last stages of the Design   Thinking process  and unrealistic expectations about generated outputs; plus  the level   of detail was too low. At the team level  there was a loss of focus during the process  time   constraints  and other specific management issues. At the individual level  the team leaders   were sometimes described as weak facilitators  and there were also some participant   issues. (See Exhibit 6.) The following sections of the report provide more detail for each of   the challenges.    3  Bodystorming is a rollplaying act in which the design team plays a scenario of a situation to gain deep understanding of that situation.     The method is most valuable to use as a means to extract new ways of thinking and new information about the situation rather than   only discussed.    4  Brainwriting is a technique similar to Brainstorming and Trigger Sessions. The general process is that all ideas are recorded by the     individual who thought of them. They are then passed on to the next person who uses them as a trigger for their own ideas.    5  Over one year  with eight groups of executives – with three to seven people per group – meeting in a room for sixty minutes to solve     a management challenge using Design Thinking dynamics. In each session  there was a meeting facilitator and a researcher. The   research member gathered feedback during and after the meetings to identify the eight most common challenges in the process of   Design Thinking.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     9    Exhibit 6  Challenges applying Design Thinking    LEADERSHIP LEVEL    Lack of a resource    Unrealistic expectations    Poor challenge    TEAM LEVEL    Loss of focus    Time constraints    Management team    INDIVIDUAL LEVEL    Weak facilitator    Participant issues    Source  Prepared by the authors.    At the leadership level  the first key challenge we identified was a lack of resources to   execute such a process correctly. For example  in some instances  banks lacked specific   technology design and development skills needed to generate a prototype quickly;   such capabilities are not part of the organizational or functional DNA of the IT function at   many banks.    Secondly  there were unrealistic expectations from the leadership team about the outputs    sometimes measuring the Design Thinking process under the performance indicators of the   current business model  rather than on the growth potential of the new business model.    Thirdly  the challenge or goal was poorly defined  It was either too generic or else not   supported with enough data.    CHALLENGE    Lack of resource    Unrealistic expectations    SOLUTION    Ensure the buyin and continuous involvement of decision makers    Guarantee that the senior managers understand that the output  although it is a   testable prototype  is seldom scalable    Poor definition    Be as specific as possible in the definition of the challenge and the scope of the exercise    An example of a successful buyin from the leadership level is the case of Cathy Bessant    Bank of America’s chief technology officer  who explained her approach to innovation at a   company that increasingly viewed itself as a fintech player.    Case  Bank of America – United States  Realigning the business model towards innovation  As Ms Bessant said  “It’s more powerful to capture innovation from 10 000 people than to put 10 people   in a lab. We do other things because we can’t fail to capture the power of Silicon Valley.”S  With the alignment of the business model and the buyin of the Csuite  Bank of America undertook a   usercentered redesign of its process for account registration. Thanks to this reengineering process  the   number of onlinebanking registrations rose by 45%.T    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     10    At the team level  our research also revealed three relevant challenges. In the first place  we   saw there was often a loss of focus during the process. For example  participants came up   with proposals that did not directly solve the problem.    In the second place  the team asked for more time during each session or lacked time for one   of the steps in Design Thinking. Usually teams did not sequence their activities properly.    Finally  there were other management issues during the whole process such as difficulty   in arranging concrete time slots in the executive agendas of team members to ensure the   exchange of ideas from different business units.    CHALLENGE    Loss of focus    Time constraints    SOLUTION    Focus is not on what customers say  but on what they do. Include team members from   the revenuegenerating department that will propose the product to the end customer    Structure the unstructured. Although the process is open  specify deadlines for   intermediate steps in the design thinking process    Management issues    Iterate and gather feedback after each session about how to improve the process    In order to tackle these challenges banks should redefine their execution to adopt agile   principles  as in the case of Auckland Savings Bank. The adoption requires a change in   mindset. For example  to embrace agile development methodologies  it is recommended   that software be built incrementally from the start of the project  instead of trying to deliver   it all at once near the end. This is done by breaking projects down into smaller bits of user   functionality called user stories  prioritizing them  and then delivering them continuously in   twoweek cycles.    Case  Auckland Savings Bank – New Zealand  The competitive advantage of agile execution  Facing the pressure of fintech disruptors  ASB New Zealand decided to improve the user experience of its   customers through agile principles.  The bank used video chat to interact directly with customers over mobile devices  reducing the need for   visits to a physical branch.  Competitors that have remained on the sidelines may argue that intheflesh interactions still form   an essential part of daytoday operations. However  the rapid growth of branchless banking in both   traditional and emerging markets should sound the alarm for stragglers.    This redefinition includes  focusing not on what customers said but on what they did    including team members from the business side early on  specifying deadlines for   intermediate steps of the Design Thinking process  and fostering in senior management   the understanding that outputs can be preliminary and not necessarily be fully scalable and   usable from the start.    Engaging into Design Thinking in a partial way  by creating an innovation lab  but leaving   the rest of the organization unchanged  can create issues downstream  particularly if the   right collaborative mindset and structure is not adopted from the start. Specifically  this   fragmentation may make it difficult to develop or scale the ideas generated during the   ideation phase.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     11    At the individual level  our research also identified two challenges that arose when applying   Design Thinking.    Firstly  team members sometimes described their meeting leaders as weak facilitators   because either the person was not introduced properly at the beginning of the meeting or   the person’s functions were not clearly defined.    Secondly  there were issues with participants who did not understand the views of other   team members  lacked communication skills to justify their ideas or were not prepared   enough to contribute to the meeting.    CHALLENGE    Weak facilitator    SOLUTION    Select someone with a hybrid profile who understands the styles of thinking and   communication of the team members and who understands the emotional intelligence   of each team member    Participant issues    Define few but clear rules and select each team member in advance to identify   complementary patterns among participants’ expertise    We identified solutions such as the election of hybrid profiles as facilitators  the definition   of clear rules during the process  and the selection of complementary patterns among   participant’s expertise.    OCBC Bank is an example of an institution that successfully implemented Design   Thinking principles.    Case  OCBC Bank – Singapore  An internal revolution  the introduction of Design Thinking  Through Design Thinking principles  a diversified team within OCBC Bank developed the initial product   concept based on customers’ insights.  Once the first product concept was ready  the team had a cocreation workshop with a frontline   employee. During the session  cocreators were not merely validating what had been developed  but   were redefining a new product communication concept.  The team prototyped communication ideas with frontline employees  using simple materials and   stationery. By involving employees in the process  the team not only was able to design what would   work for them in an advisory meeting  but also learned how to explain the product in a simple and   compelling way.U  After the process  OCBC Bank increased sales of its new investment product by 150 percent and   increased their customers’ trust perception.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     12    APPLYING DESIGN THINKING    THE CASE OF THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN BANK    ADVANCED DIGITAL CREDIT UNDERWRITING SME 2.0    Earlier this year  Oliver Wyman partnered with the National Australian Bank (NAB) to   develop a new solution  called the NAB Quickbiz Loan  for their small and medium   enterprise (SMEs) clients. By applying Design Thinking through the five explained steps   (see Exhibit 10)  we were able to work backwards from the client’s needs in order to create a   truly compelling product.    Exhibit 7  Screenshot of the NAB Quickbiz Loan platform    Source  NAB Quickbiz website.    The final output consisted in a simple threestep online application that was linked to a   dynamic cashflow credit model that was able to provide unsecured business loans up to   $50 000 to SMEs  making decisions within 60 seconds and taking maximum three days to   disburse funds.    EMPATHIZE    Firstly  we rethought the whole lending process from the end user perspective. Using DILOs   we were able to relive the whole lending process through which an SME has to pass in order   to obtain financing.     Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     13    Exhibit 8  Factors that matter most when deciding where to apply for a business loan    N=711  AVERAGE POINTS ALLOCATED (OUT OF 100)    35%    28%    22%    15%    Easy application    and speedy fulfillment    Pricing    Previous relation    with lender    Others    Source  Prepared by the authors.    DEFINE    Secondly  thanks to the analysis  we found that      • The process was too complex  while customers were looking for a simple credit process   • Small businesses predominantly prefer unsecured product options   • Online / mobile services make the biggest difference in the credit experience and will be     the primary driver of differentiated service for customers in the future     • The process was too time consuming    IDEATE    Thirdly  having understood and defined the end user’s needs and behaviors  we started   generating ideas and in the end agreed that the product should abide by the following      • Radically simple. Be embedded in a convenient channel that allows access anytime    anywhere. The application had to be limited to a threestep process in order to avoid   complexity problems from the previous application channels. The process had to be   redesigned and simplified endtoend.     • Friction is the enemy. Information that has already been provided to the bank cannot     be asked for again. The model will be prepopulated from available internal data from   existing customers  and completed with imported data from external sources (such as    accounting platforms).     • Rapid decisioning. Prospects should be converted in one go  so that they never   leave without a decision. Automated credit assessment will be ensured through   advanced credit models that leverage dynamic cash flow data to continuously refine   calibration levels.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     14    Exhibit 9  Customer credit model    # OF SME CUSTOMERS    Below threshold    Above threshold    No adjustment    Serviceability grade notched down    d  e  r  r  e  f  e  R    Source  Prepared by the authors.    CASH INFLOW VOLATILITY    In short  the final idea was to generate a dynamic customer cash flow credit model that   continuously refined calibration levels and allowed for an automated assessment.    PROTOTYPE    Fourthly  the first model prototypes started to be developed and tested with some of the   current bank’s customer base. Constant iterations enabled us to come up with a more   refined version of the product.    TEST    Lastly  at this point it was time to put the product into the end user’s hands and asked for   feedback. We experienced the process from the user perspective to see how it worked.   Consequently  we were able to incorporate feedback into the prototype model. For instance    incorporating additional cashflow risk indicators allowed for more accurate risk scoring and   credit decisions.    The final step consisted in rolling out the service to SME clients and nonclients. Thanks to   the efficient collaboration  the concept to launch was completed within six months.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     15    Exhibit 10  Overview of the application of Design Thinking during the project with NAB Bank    Broader market context and    strategic goals  market direction     brand positioning  noncompete cost  etc.    Tenor  speed to cash     risk anchor point  customer  experience  channel  etc.    Product features desired    Options to meet demand available     (e.g. ﬁntech  credit cards etc.)    Price range expected  etc.    CUSTOMER    NEEDS ASSESSMENT    Indepth market  survey of potential    SME customer  requirements    LAUNCH   STRATEGY  Assessment of    buying or building    partner options    PRODUCT  DESIGN    Design of product features    processes and functionality     based on target    customer segments    BUSINESS    CASE DEVELOPMENT    For internal buyin    and approval    Market sizing and access potential    Product economics    Potential build options    Source  Prepared by the authors.    PRODUCT     BUILD    Rapid  agile    technology build    Utilising full agile    project development   Built over six 2–3 week   development sprints    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     16    CONCLUSION    DEBANKING IS NOT THE END OF BANKS BUT THE BEGINNING OF   DESIGN THINKING    By improving the user experience  Design Thinking not only has a positive impact on customer relationships  it also   adds to the value proposition of the bank’s business model  and can lead to a sustainable source of revenue growth.    If Design Thinking is established as a key component of their strategy  it helps to position the business model of   financial services firms by understanding the underlying customer needs and behaviors. And with a set strategy   in place  Design Thinking enables firms to build out prototypes  test and learn from them  and finally launch the   products and services that will help them succeed.    Though applying Design Thinking in Financial Services may have some challenges at different levels  we have   identified several solutions that should help corporations in a successful application of the method.    Finally  the question remains  Is this the end of banks as we know them? We believe that while the banking sector   is going through a period of disruption driven by digitization  new regulations  changing customer behaviors    low growth perspectives  a sticky cost base  and increased competition  this is not the end of the sector. Our view    instead  is that this marks the genesis of the banking sector’s new DNA  a combination of changes in business   models  agile execution  and Design Thinking.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     17    Exhibit 11  Challenges and solutions for applying Design Thinking    BUSINESS   MODELLING    DNA    DESIGN   THINKING    AGILE     EXECUTION    LEADERSHIP LEVEL    Lack of a resource  Solution  Ensure the buyin   and continuous involvement   of decision makers    TEAM LEVEL    Loss of focus  Solution  Focus is not on what   customers say but on what they   do. Also include team members   from the revenuegenerating   department that will propose  the product to the end customer    INDIVIDUAL LEVEL    Unrealistic expectations  Solution  Guarantee that the   senior managers understand   that the output  although  it is a testable prototype   is seldom scalable    Poor challenge  Solution  Be as speciﬁc as   possible in the deﬁnition of   the challenge and the scope   of the exercise    Time constraints  Solution  Structure the   unstructured. Although the   process is open  specify   deadlines for intermediate steps   in the Design Thinking process    Management issues  Solution  Iterate and gather   feedback after each session   about how to improve  the process    Weak Facilitator  Solution  Select someone with a hybrid proﬁle   who understands the styles of thinking and   communication of the team members and  who understands the emotional intelligence  of each team member    Participant issues  Solution  Deﬁne few but clear rules and  select each team member in advance to  identify complementary patterns among   participants’ expertise    Source  Prepared by the authors.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     18    APPENDIX    METHOD    In order to achieve the objectives  set out in this study  we have applied a variety of   techniques. The combination of those methods allowed us to capture with greater precision   and rigor the answer to the question  “What are the main constraints on the application of   Design Thinking in the banking sector and how should it be applied?”    First  to contextualize and structure the research analysis  we explored the available   literature related to the topic such as refereed articles  nonrefereed articles  business cases   and studies. Some of these sources are cited as reference.    Additionally  17 companies were analyzed in more detail  out of an initial pool of 47 banks.   In each of the 17 banks  the research process involved gathering publicly available online   data about the companies and their initiatives related to innovation and Design Thinking.   Second  media articles related to the topic were sought using the Factiva database. Third    data analysis was carried out using several global indexes and financial data such as the   Orbis database. Fourth  gathering images of the innovation labs and items associated with   the Design Thinking process that the teams had used to make improvements.    In the end  17 cases from 11 countries were selected out of 47 analyzed banks. Five of those   17 banks had revenues of more than $70 billion. The selection followed several criteria    such as the amount of revenues and assets  the country of its headquarters  the level of   performance applying Design Thinking  etc.  ensuring a diversified sample for analysis.    Second  we met with eight groups of senior executives – with three to seven people per   group – meeting in a room for sixty minutes to solve a management challenge using Design   Thinking dynamics. In each session  there was a meeting facilitator and a researcher. The   research member gathered feedback during and after the meetings to identify the eight   most common challenges in the process of Design Thinking.    Finally  the evidence found from the literature review and the initial examination have been   nuanced  contrasted  and complemented by the accomplishment of fieldwork consisting   of interviews.    Some of these interviews were in situ and some of them were by videoconference. The   content was nonstructured interviews with open questions  depending on the interviewee.    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     19    HEADQUARTERS    ASSETS (€BN)    REVENUES (€BN)    ADDITIONAL EXHIBITS    Table 2  Information about the analyzed companies (2016)    NAME  Auckland Savings Bank    Bank of America    Barclays    BBVA    BNP Paribas    Capital One    Deutsche Bank    HSBC Holdings    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    New Zealand    United States    United Kingdom    Spain    France    United States    Germany    United Kingdom    Industrial and Commercial Bank of China China    10    11    Intesa Sanpaolo    JPMorgan Chase    12 National Australian Bank    13 OCBC Bank    14 Royal Bank of Canada    15    16    Santander    Standard Chartered    17 Wells Fargo    Source  Prepared by the authors    Italy    United States    Australia    Singapore    Canada    Spain    United Kingdom    United States    70.0    1 982.6    1 035.6    750.1    1 994.2    307.6    1 629.1    2 218.6    3 149.3    676.5    2 174.4    600.9    253.1    743.8    1 340.3    589.7    1 645.9    4.2    86.5    26.8    30.1    63.7    22.6    43.5    68.3    148.4    22.6    93.4    23.3    8.1    30.7    70.4    18.5    81.2    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     20    Table 3  Estimated year when innovation labs were created or Design Thinking started to be   applied  the banks’ focus during the Design Thinking process that was analyzed  and the   outputs achieved    NAME  Auckland Savings Bank    Bank of America    Barclays    BBVA    BNP Paribas    Capital One    Deutsche Bank    BEGINNING FOCUS    2013    2010    2006    2010    2014    2011    2008    Move to mobile using   Design Thinking    Redefining the account   registration process    Teaching Design   Thinking through   the organization    User experience   through open   innovation    Combining Design   Thinking with   open innovation    Teaching Design   Thinking throughout   the organization    Improving the user   experience through   the IT division    OUTPUTS    Reduced cost    Increased online traffic    Increased innovation   engagement activity    Improved user loyalty   and new products    Innovation of the   value proposition    More proposals   per year    Increased   customer proximity    HSBC Holdings    2015    Recruiting design talent More proposals     Industrial and Commercial Bank of China 2015    Product development    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    Intesa Sanpaolo    11    JPMorgan Chase    12 National Australian Bank    13 OCBC Bank    14 Royal Bank of Canada    15    16    Santander    Standard Chartered    17 Wells Fargo    Source  Prepared by the authors    2014    2014    2013    2012    2016    2014    2010    2014    per year    Improved user   experience    New products   or services    Improved user   experience and   decreased costs    Improved SME   lending process    Improving UI and   opening new sectors    Increasing   interaction in the   distribution channel    Integrating customer   behaviors into   business model    Redefining the account   registration process    Increased product sales    Partnering with   fintech startups    Improved perception   of the market    Investment strategy    New product    Developing new   capabilities for clients    Improved customer   experience    Incubating new   business ideas    More proposals   per year    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     21    ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS    The authors Josemaria Siota  Thomas Klueter  Dieter Staib  Sam Taylor  and Iñigo Ania would   like to thank all the people who contribute to make this study happen. They especially   wish to express their sincere gratitude on the one hand to Julia Prats and Paula Sancho   at IESE Business School  and on the other hand to Ivan Palencia and Pablo Rodriguez at   Oliver Wyman. Additionally  our gratitude goes to the Entrepreneurship and Innovation   Center at IESE Business School and the Financial Services practice at Oliver Wyman.   Without their effective support  we would have been unable to complete this project.    BIBLIOGRAPHY    A  PayPal Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2016 Results     K  Buchanan  R. Wicked problems in design thinking.     (PayPal  2017).    Design Issues  MIT Press. 8  521 (1992).    B  The 21st Century Bank  Rethinking and Transforming     L  Rowe  P. G. Design thinking (MIT Press  1987).    Financial Institutions (Nurun  2013).    C  Siota  J. & Zorzella  L. Revenue growth  four proven     strategies – lean principles applied to growth companies   and startups (McGrawHill  2014).    M  Moultrie  J. & Livesey  F. Measuring design investment   in firms  Conceptual foundations and exploratory UK   survey. Research Policy 43  570587 (2014).    N  2016 Design Value Index (Design Management     D  Burgelman  R. A. A Process Model of Internal     Institute  2016).    Corporate Venturing in the Diversified Major Firm.   Administrative Science Quqartetrly. 28  223244 (1983).    E  Kuratko D. F  Hornsby J. S  C. J. G. Diagnosing a firm’s   internal environment for corporate entrepreneurship.   Business. Horizons. 57  3747 (2014).    O  Various. Spotlight on the evolution of design thinking.     Harvard Business Review. 5685 (2015).    P  An Introduction to Design Thinking  Process Guide.     Hasso Plattner Institute of Design at Stanford.    F  Wilson  M. Why One Of Google’s Wildest Designers     Q  Liebau  D. Design Thinking in Financial Services.     Left For A Bank (Fast Company  2014).    (Lightbulb Capital  2016).    G  Schauer  B. Value isn’t a subtractive process      R  The State of the Financial Services Industry 2017      designing from the outside in (Adaptive Path  2009).    Transforming for Future Value (Oliver Wyman  2017).    H  Gruber  M.  de Leon  N.  George  G. & Thompson    P. Managing By Design. Academy of Management   Journal. 58  17 (2015).    S  Nash  K. CIO Voices  Bank of America’s Cathy Bessant     Says ‘No’ to Innovation Labs – CIO Journal. – WSJ.   The Wall Street Journal (2015).    I  UK Design Council  the value of design factfinder report     T  Ross  J. The Business Value of User Experience     (Design Council  2007).    (Infragistics  2014).    J  Archer  J. History of design thinking (Encyclopedia of     U  Kang  J. Design Thinking. EFMA Journal (2012).    UX  2016).    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE     22    Copyright © 2017 Oliver Wyman and IESE  All rights reserved. This report may not be reproduced or redistributed  in whole or in part  without the written permission of Oliver Wyman and IESE.   Oliver Wyman and IESE accept no liability whatsoever for the actions of third parties in this respect. The information and opinions in this report were prepared   by Oliver Wyman and IESE. This report is not investment advice and should not be relied on for such advice or as a substitute for consultation with professional   accountants  tax  legal or financial advisors. Oliver Wyman and IESE have made every effort to use reliable  uptodate and comprehensive information and   analysis  but all information is provided without warranty of any kind  express or implied. Oliver Wyman and IESE disclaim any responsibility to update the   information or conclusions in this report. Oliver Wyman and IESE accept no liability for any loss arising from any action taken or refrained from as a result of   information contained in this report or any reports or sources of information referred to herein  or for any consequential  special or similar damages even if   advised of the possibility of such damages. The report is not an offer to buy or sell securities or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell securities. This report   may not be sold without the written consent of Oliver Wyman and IESE.    