here  in file  		  SME	POLICY	FACED	WITH	DEVELOPMENT	OF	  Digital	Innovation	Can	  FINANCIAL	TECHNOLOGY	  Improve	Financial	Access	for	  SMEs	  Lead	author	  Naoko	Nemoto	(Asian	Development	Bank	Institute)	  Miriam	Koreen	(OECD)	  	  	Submitted	on	March	14 	2019	  Revised	on	March	27 	2019		  Abstract	    This	Policy	Brief	summarizes	the	small	and	mediumsized	enterprise	  (SME)	credit	and	equity	gap	and	proposes	ways	that	emerging	  technologies	and	innovative	business	models	can	improve	SMEs’	access	  to	financial	services	and	boost	longterm	economic	growth.	The	  measures	described	are	intended	to 	(1)	improve	traditional	lending	  using	new	technology	and	big	data;	(2)	broaden	funding	tools 	including	  capital	market	finance;	(3)	enhance	the	consultation	function	of	financial	  institutions;	and	(4)	design	an	appropriate	regulatory	environment	for	  fintech.		  	    	    	  	  	    	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	    	Challenge			  Small	and	mediumsized	enterprises	(SMEs)	go	through	several	phases	in	their	  life	cycles—startup 	growth 	maturity 	and	renewal/rebirth	or	decline—and	  their	financing	needs	vary	depending	on	those	phases.	This	Policy	Brief	  primarily	focuses	on	the	“growth”	and	“renewal”	phases 	although	our	proposal	  to	utilize	new	fintech	technology	is	also	useful	for	“startup”	firms.		  Access	to	bank	lending	is	more	challenging	for	SMEs	than	for	large	businesses	  Ø SMEs	are	key	contributors	to	economic	activity	as	an	important	source	of	  employment 	growth 	and	innovation.	Despite	their	essential	role 	SMEs	  receive	a	disproportionately	small	share	of	credit	from	the	financial	system 	  a	trend	that	persists	across	developed	and	developing	countries	(ADB  OECD	2014).	There	appear	to	be	structural	barriers	that	impede	bank	  lending	to	SMEs 	including	information	asymmetries 	high	transaction	costs 	  the	possible	decline	of	traditionalrelationship	lending 	and	the	insufficient	  financial	capabilities	of	SME	owners	and	entrepreneurs.	  1. Financial	institutions	may	find	loans	to	SMEs	less	profitable 	even	if	they	  charge	higher	interest	rates	to	account	for	greater	credit	risk1.	With	  tightened	capital	and	liquidity	regulations	after	the	global	financial	crisis 	  banks	have	the	incentive	to	scrutinize	and	charge	higher	interest	rates	for	  loans	to	SMEs	(Griggs	2012;	Bucă	and	Vermeulen	2017).			  2. Lack	of	public	information	and	the	sometimesinadequate	quality	and	lower	  frequency	of	financial	statements	compared	to	large	enterprises	makes	it	  difficult	for	banks	to	assess	and	monitor	the	credit	risks	posed	by	SMEs	  (Yoshino	and	Yamagami	2017).		  	  1	Intensifying	competition	from	other	industries 	including	fintech	firms 	and	  pressure	on	profitability	have	led	to	reductions	in	staff	and	branches	for	many	banks.	  According	to	the	European	Banking	Federation	Report	(2018) 	the	number	of	domestic	  banks	branches	in	Europe	fell	by	21% 	and	the	number	of	bank	employees	declined	by	12%	  during	2009–2016.	Japan’s	second	largest	bank	has	announced	that	they	will	slim	down	by	  onefourth	of	their	total	employees	and	decrease	the	number	of	branches	by	20%	by	2027.	    																																																								    	    2	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	    	SMEs	are	overreliant	on	straight	debt	  1. Bank	credit	is	not	always	the	most	appropriate	form	of	financing	for	new 	  innovative 	and	highgrowth	SMEs.	Alternative	financing	tools 	such	as	  equity	finance 	corporate	bonds	issuance 	and	mezzanine	finance	are	  generally	underutilized	by	SMEs.	In	particular 	alternative	finance	is		needed	  for	companies	seeking	to	transform	their	activities 	such	as	a	change	in	  ownership	or	expansion	into	new	markets.	  2. This	problem	is	compounded	for	startup	firms	with	limited	credit	histories	  and	untested	business	models.		  Fintech	solutions	could	help	fill	the	credit	and	equity	gap 	but	many	issues	  remain	  Ø Despite	the	potential	social	and	economic	benefits	of	fintech	in	increasing	  access	to	financial	services	and	financial	inclusion	for	the	underserved	and	  allowing	easier	and	cheaper	crossborder	payments	and	transfers	(e.g. 	  remittances) 	the	use	of	these	innovative	options	remains	limited	compared	  to	traditional	debt	finance	for	several	reasons.		  1. These	instruments	are	likely	accessible	only	to	SMEs	with	financial	and	  digital	literacy	and	access	to	reliable	information	and	infrastructure.		  2. Alternative	finance	(such	as	equity	crowdfunding	and	P2P	lending)	carries	  inherent	risks.	Investors	risk	losing	invested	funds.	Fraud	risk 	information	  leaks 	and	cyberattacks	are	additional	concerns	(Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	  New	York	2017).	Most	of	these	challenges	extend	to	blockchainbased	  syndicated	  lending).	  financing	  (e.g. 	  Initial	 Coin	 Offerings	 and	  The	 design	 of	 regulatory	 regimes	  incomplete	 and	  is	 critical 	 but	  inconsistent.	  	Proposal		  Improve	Traditional	Lending	using	New	Technology	and	Big	Data		  Ø Emerging	financial	technology	and	innovations	in	traditional	business	    	    3	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	    	 models	can	take	advantage	of	the	rapidly	digitizing	economy	to	expand	  SMEs’	access	to	credit.		  1. Process	automation	  The	traditional	lending	process	may	benefit	from	the	use	of	online	applications	  and	the	automation	of	underwriting 	due	diligence 	loan	servicing 	and	  regulatory	 compliance	 tasks.	 Financial	  institutions	 will	 enhance	 their	  productivity	and	lower	their	operating	costs.	As	for	borrowers 	the	use	of	  technology	(such	as	cloudbased	accounting 	digital	payments 	and	the	  automation	of	invoicing	and	settlement	processes)	could	enable	them	to	  substantiate	their	business	activities	and	become	eligible	for	finance.	Recent	  research	shows	that	blockchains	can	significantly	improve	the	efficiency	of	  trade	finance 	which	involves	extensive	paperwork	across	multiple	ledgers	  (Creehan	2018).		  2. Encourage	innovative	use	of	technology	and	data	sharing		  Data	on	SMEs	could	be	integrated 	generalized 	and	shared	among	financial	  institutions	and	other	players 	such	as	fintech	firms.	The	accuracy	of	credit	risk	  models	tends	to	increase	as	the	data	pool	becomes	larger.	In	Japan 	the	Japan	  Risk	Data	Bank	(RDB)	and	Credit	Risk	Database	(CRD)2	cover	most	financial	  institutions 	including	credit	unions.	In	France 	the	FIBEN	(Fichier	bancaire	des	  enterprises)	database	collects	a	relatively	comprehensive	set	of	data	on	SMEs	  (Boschmans	and	Pissareva	2018).	Such	data	has	been	utilized	for	loan	reviews 	  interest	rate	setting 	and	portfolio	management.	They	have	also	contributed	to	  the	advancement	of	credit	risk	analyses	by	banks.	In	emerging	countries 	credit	  scoring	methods	and	the	development	of	common	databases	are	still	in	the	  developmental	stage	(ADB	2014).				  Several	innovative	banks	and	nonbanks	are	leveraging	alternative	data	  (including	data	on	bank	account	information 	ecommerce	transactions 	invoice	  2	The	Japan	RDB	anonymously	covers	credit	information	on	910 	000	companies 	and	the	  CRD	covers	2.4	million	companies.	In	addition	to	financial	data 	data	on	transactions	through	  companies’	bank	account	information	is	collected	and	constantly	updated.	It	is	still	rare	even	  in	developed	markets	for	most	private	banks 	including	credit	unions 	to	have	a	shared	  database	on	SMEs.	    																																																								    	    4	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	    	data 	and	customer	surveys)	generated	by	the	growing	social	and	economic	  activities	taking	place	online	to	support	credit	scoring.	According	to	research	  by	the	Asian	Development	Bank	Institute 	bank	account	information	(such	as	  information	on	deposits	and	cash	flows)	are	not	fully	accounted	for	in	  traditional	scoring	systems.	If	such	alternative	data	is	utilized 	banks	can	  enhance	their	credit	risk	scoring	accuracy	and	reduce	their	credit	costs	and	  loan	review	time	and	costs 	making	SME	financing	smoother	and	more	efficient	  (Nemoto	et	al.	2018).	  In	addition 	banks	could	take	more	account	of	the	value	of	intangible	assets	such	  as	patents 	software 	and	contractual	agreements	when	making	lending	  decisions.	Even	though	these	assets	make	up	an	increasing	share	of	SMEs’	  overall	assets 	they	are	often	of	limited	relevance	when	securing	credit	  (Brassell	and	Boschmans	2019).	  The	Chinese	government	sees	clear	potential	for	the	use	of	alternative	data.	Ant	  Financial	Services	Group 	which	is	associated	with	Alibaba 	has	succeeded	in	  providing	loan	services	to	SMEs	promptly	and	efficiently 	leveraging	data	on	e  commerce	and	artificial	intelligence3.		  3. Enhance	credit	guarantee	programs			  The	public	credit	guarantee	scheme	is	a	tool	to	reduce	the	supplydemand	gap	  in	SME	finance.	The	clear	majority	of	the	Organization	for	Economic	Co  operation	and	Development	(OECD)	countries	have	adopted	public	guarantee	  schemes 	as	have	an	increasing	number	of	governments	in	emerging	countries	  (OECD	2018a).	On	the	other	hand 	credit	guarantee	systems	may	be	subject	to	  moral	hazard	problems 	keeping	unviable	enterprises	in	business	and	causing	  deadweight	losses	(Ono	et	al.	2014).	To	tackle	these	issues 	the	following	points	  should	be	considered 	(1)	the	business	sustainability	of	SMEs;	(2)	proper	risk	  sharing;	and	(3)	credit	infrastructure	to	enhance	borrower	performance	(ADB  OECD	2014;	OECD	2018b).		  	  3	This	model	has	been	pursued	by	Amazon	and	other	companies	in	Western	countries.	    																																																								    	    5	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	    	Broaden	the	Range	of	Financing		  1. Form	special	investment	funds	for	SMEs	  Many	studies	have	indicated	that	funding	diversification	has	had	a	positive	  impact	on	corporate	performance	(Guo	et	al.	2011).	But	for	most	SMEs 	the	use	  of	equity	finance	is	still	quite	limited	(Department	of	Business	Innovation	and	  Skills	of	the	UK	2012).	This	is	attributable	to	the	difficulties	of	SMEs	in	  providing	enough	qualified	information	to	investors	(OECD	2018b).	In	addition 	  financial	intermediaries	(such	as	brokerage	firms)	have	few	incentives	to	  support	SMEs	in	tapping	the	capital	market 	considering	the	costs	and	returns.		  In	light	of	these	constraints 	the	G20/OECD	Highlevel	Principles	on	SME	  Financing 	welcomed	by	G20	Leaders	in	2015 	call	for	a	twopronged	policy	  approach	to	stimulate	the	development	of	a	broad	range	of	finance	instruments	  and	to	strengthen	SME	access	to	traditional	bank	financing	(G20/OECD	2015).	  Many	countries	have	taken	actions	to	enable	SMEs	to	diversify	sources	and	  instruments	to	meet	their	financing	needs	(G20/OECD	2018).		  For	example 	the	formation	of	special	funds	initiated	by	the	public	sector	has	  contributed	to	filling	the	gap	in	equity	needs	in	the	United	Kingdom	(UK)	and	  other	countries.		  In	Kenya 	the	government	has	set	up	the	Kenya	Micro 	Small 	and	Medium	  Enterprise	Competitiveness	Project	in	collaboration	with	the	World	Bank 	  which	has	led	to	the	diversification	of	SME	funding	(Hua	2013).	The	fund	has	  deep	knowledge	on	local	investees	and	has	provided	advisory	services	coupled	  with	financial	investment	to	SMEs 	which	are	a	key	success	factor	for	the	project.	  2. Improve	SME	access	to	capital	markets			  Capital	markets	could	contribute	to	mitigating	the	SME	financing	gap 	especially	  for	segments	in	the	SME	population	for	which	bank	credit	is	not	particularly	  appropriate	or	may	be	difficult	to	obtain	(Thompson	et	al.	2018).	Crossborder	  transactions	and	listings	on	foreign	exchanges	should	be	considered 	as	SMEs	  would	benefit	from	high	liquidity	and	diversified	investors.	Some	studies	have	  indicated	the	adoption	of	network	cooperation	among	major	European	  exchanges	are	associated	with	higher	market	capitalization 	lower	transaction	    	    6	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	    	costs 	and	higher	growth	of	companies	(Hasan	and	Schmiedel	2004).	Exchanges	  in	Asia	trail	their	global	peers	in	terms	of	the	presence	of	foreign	firms	(apart	  from	Singapore).	The	Japan	Exchange	Group	and	other	exchanges	are	working	  toward	standardizing	IPO	guidelines	and	opening	markets	for	highgrowth	  emerging	companies 	which	is	a	positive	step	for	market	integration.		  	Enhance	the	Consultative	Functions	of	Financial	Institutions			  1. Alternative	data	can	be	an	effective	tool	for	financial	institutions	for	  analyzing	the	business	and	financial	conditions	of	their	customers	and	  providing	effective	consulting	services.	Several	innovative	banks	and	  nonbanks	provide	comprehensive	services	to	SMEs	for	marketing 	staff	  recruitment 	and	business	restructuring.	The	consultation	function	of	  financial	institutions	could	be	further	augmented	by	developing	an	effective	  community	or	ecosystem	among	public	entities 	universities 	and	the	  private	sector	(Acs	et	al.	2018).	  2. Demographic	change	and	the	increasing	needs	for	business	transfer	are	  areas	of	concern.	In	Japan 	2.5	million	SME	owners	will	be	over	70	years	of	  age	between	now	and	2027.	Around	half	of	them	do	not	have	clear	  succession	plans	for	their	businesses.	According	to	the	Japan	Ministry	of	  Economy 	Trade	and	Industry 	this	trend	will	result	in	6.5	million	or	9.7%	  fewer	workers	and	$200	billion	in	gross	domestic	product.	In	response 	  financial	institutions	and	local	governments	are	taking	proactive	steps	to	  support	business	succession	(for	further	information	and	proposals 	please	  refer	to	the	Policy	Brief 	“Business	Transfer	as	an	Engine	for	SME	Growth”).		  	Design	an	Appropriate	Regulatory	Environment	for	Fintech		  The	design	of	regulatory	regimes	is	critical.	The	challenges	for	regulators	are	to	  protect	against	systemic	risks 	ensure	compliance	with	regulations	on	personal	  data 	and	maintain	a	fair 	safe 	and	competitive	market.	  Policymakers	should	remember	the	following	points	to	capitalize	on	the	    	    7	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	    	benefits	to	users	and	investors.	  1. Financial	literacy	and	education	for	borrowers	and	investors	  2. The	detection	of	fraud 	data	leaks 	and	cyber	criminality	  3. Fair	competition	and	transparency	  4. Financial	stability	concerns	  5. Enabling	a	legal	framework	to	accommodate	technological	changes	(e.g. 	  contracts 	data	ownership 	and	digital	payments)	  The	UK	is	an	effective	model	for	the	regulation	of	alternative	finance 	including	  crowd	finance	and	P2P	lending.	Authorities	in	the	UK	provide	feedback	to	  companies	on	the	regulatory	implications	of	their	plans	and	run	a	regulatory	  sandbox	to	allow	selected	firms	to	test	new	models	on	the	market4.	Regulatory	  action	to	date	suggests	that	it	has	helped	to	build	an	understanding	of	the	issues	  and	responsiveness	to	evolving	industry	dynamics	(Nemoto	et	al.	2019).		  The	Payment	Service	Directive	Revised	(PSD2 	issued	in	the	European	Union	in	  2016	and	became	effective	in	2018)	is	a	new	regulation	affecting	most	banks	in	  European	markets.	One	of	the	main	consequences	of	PSD2	is	the	appearance	of	  Account	Information	Service	Providers.	  This	will	allow	individual	account	owners	holding	accounts	in	several	banks	to	  share	their	information	with	an	account	aggregator.	It	remains	to	be	seen	how	  this	will	affect	the	business	models	of	banks	and	nonbanks	and	the	quality	of	  services	(Neyer	2017).			  	References		  •  Acs 	Z.J. 	Estrin 	S. 	Mickiewicz 	T.	and	Szerb	L.	(2018) 	Entrepreneurship 	  institutional	economics 	and	economic	growth 	an	ecosystem	perspective.	Small	  Business	Economics	51	(2) 	501514.	  4	The	sandbox	approach	has	been	adopted	by	many	other	jurisdictions	(BIS	2017).	    																																																								    	    8	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	  	    •  ADBOECD	(2014) 	Study	on	Enhancing	Financial	Accessibility	for	SMEs	ADBOECD	  Study	on	Enhancing	Financial	Accessibility	for	SMEs	Lessons	from	Recent	Crises	  Lessons	from	Recent	Crises.	Mandaluyong	City 	Philippines 	Asian	Development	  Bank.	  •  Asian	Development	Bank.	(2014) 	Asia	SME	Finance	Monitor	2013 	Mandaluyong	  City 	Philippines 	Asian	Development	Bank.	  •  Asian	Development	Bank.	(2015) 	Asia	SME	Finance	Monitor	2014 	Mandaluyong	  City 	Philippines 	Asian	Development	Bank.	  •  Banks	for	International	Settlements	and	Financial	Stability	Board.	(2017) 	FinTech	  credit 	Market	structure 	business	models	and	financial	stability	implications	2017.	  •  Behr 	P.	and	Guettler 	A.	(2007) 	Credit	Risk	Assessment	and	Relationship	Lending 	  An	Empirical	Analysis	of	German	Small	and	MediumSized	Enterprises.	Journal	of	  Small	Business	Management	45	(2)	 	194213.	  •  Boschmans 	K.	and	Pissareva 	L.	(2018) 	Fostering	Markets	for	SME	Finance 	  Matching	Business	and	Investor	Needs 	OECD	SME	and	Entrepreneurship	Papers	No.	  6.		  •  Brassell 	M.	and	Boschmans 	K.	(2019) 	Fostering	the	use	of	intangibles	to	  strengthen	SME	access	to	finance.	OECD	SME	and	Entrepreneurship	Papers	No.	12.	  •  Bucă 	A.	and	Vermeulen 	P.	(2017) 	Corporate	Investment	and	bankdependent	  borrowers	during	the	recent	financial	crisis.	Journal	of	Banking	and	Finance	78	(C) 	  164180.	  •  Canocchi 	C.	(2016) 	FCA	calls	for	new	rules	to	protect	crowdfunding	investors 	This	  is	MONEY.co.uk.	Retrieved	from	  •  https //www.thisismoney.co.uk/money/investing/article4016758/FCAcallsnew  rulesprotectcrowdfundinginvestors.html	(March	12 	2019)	  •  Creehan 	S.	(2018) 	How	Digital	Innovation	Can	Increase	Small	Business	Access	To	  Finance	in	Asia.	Asia	Focus.	Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	San	Francisco.	  •  Department	for	Business 	Innovation	and	Skills	of	the	UK.	(2012) 	SME	Access	to	  External	Finance.	BIS	economic	papers	No.	6.	  •  Federal	Reserve	Bank	of	New	York.	(2017) 	2017	Small	Business	Credit	Survey 	  Report	on	Employer	Firms.		  •  Financial	Service	Agency.	(2003) 	Progress	of	Action	Program	for	Strengthening	  Relationship	Banking	Functions.	  •  G20/OECD.	(2015) 	G20/OECD	HighLevel	Principles	on	SME	Financing.	  •  G20/OECD.	(2018) 	G20/OECD	Effective	Approaches	for	Implementing	the	  G20/OECD	HighLevel	Principles	on	SME	Financing.	  •  Ghazali 	N.	and	Yasuoka 	T.	(2018) 	Awareness	and	Perception	Analysis	of	Small	  Medium	Enterprise	and	Startup	Towards	FinTech	Instruments 	Crowdfunding	and	  PeertoPeer	Lending	in	Malaysia.	International	Journal	of	Finance	and	Banking	  Research	4	(1) 	1324.	  •  Griggs 	R.	(2012) 	Annual	Report	2011/12	Banking	Taskforce	Appeals	Process.	  Independent	External	Reviewer.		  •  Guibaud 	S.	(2016) 	How	to	develop	a	profitable 	customerfocused	digital	banking	  strategy 	Open	banking	services	and	developerfriendly	APIs.	Journal	of	Digital	  Banking	1	(1) 	612.	    	    9	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	  	    •     •  Guo 	S. 	Hotchkiss 	E.S.	and	Song 	W.	(2011) 	Do	Buyouts	(Still)	Create	Value?	Journal	  of	Finance	66	(2) 	479517.		  •  Hasan 	I.	and	Schmiedel 	H.	(2004) 	Networks	and	Equity	Market	Integration 	  European	Evidence.	International	Review	of	Financial	Analysis	13	(5) 	601619.	  •  Hua 	X.	(2013) 	Nontraditional	private	equity	financing	can	be	a	winwin	solution	  for	SMEs	[Blog	post].	Retrieved	from	  	http //blogs.worldbank.org/psd/non  traditionalprivateequityfinancingcanbeawinwinsolutionforsmes	(March	12 	  2019).	  International	Monetary	Fund.	(2018) 	The	Bali	Fintech	Agenda 	IMF	Policy	Paper.	  •  Kuwahara 	S. 	Yoshino 	N. 	Sagara 	M.	and	TaghizadehHesary 	F.	(2015) 		Role	of	the	  Credit	Risk	Database	in	Developing	SMEs	in	Japan 	Lessons	for	the	Rest	of	Asia.	ADBI	  Working	Paper	Series	No.	547.	  •  Maehara 	Y.	(2013) 	Role	of	the	Credit	Risk	Database	in		SME	Financing.	RIETI	  Discussion	Paper	Series	13J067	(in	Japanese).	  •  Miller 	M.	and	Rojas 	D.	(2004) 	Improving	Access	to	Credit	for	SMEs 	An	Empirical	  Analysis	of	the	Viability	of	Pooled	Data	SME	Credit	Scoring	Models	in	Brazil 	  Colombia	and	Mexico.	World	Bank	Working	Paper.	  •  Mills 	K.G.	and	Mccarthy 	B.	(2014) 	The	State	of	Small	Business	Lending 	Credit	  Access	during	the	Recovery	and	How	Technology	May	Change	the	Game.	Harvard	  Business	School	Working	Paper	No.	15004.	  •  Nemoto 	N. 	Storey 	D.	and	Huang 	B.	(2019) 	Optimal	Regulation	of	P2P	lending	for	  SMEs.	ADBI	Working	Paper	Series	No.	912.	  •  Nemoto 	N. 	Yoshino 	N. 	Okubo 	Y. 	Inaba 	D.	and	Yanagisawa 	K.	(2018) 	Credit	Risk	  Reduction	Effect	on	Small	and	Mediumsized	Enterprise	Finance	through	the	Use	of	  Bank	Account	Information.	ADBI	Working	Paper	Series	No.	857.	  •  Neyer 	G.	(2017) 	Mobile	First’	will	become	‘API	First’	—	PSD2 	Changing	banking	as	  we	know	it.	Journal	of	Digital	Banking	2	(2) 	171178.	  •  OECD.	(2018a) 	Financing	SMEs	and	Entrepreneurs	2018 	An	OECD	Scoreboard.	  Paris 	OECD	Publishing.	  •  OECD.	(2018b) 	Enhancing	SME	access	to	diversified	financing	instruments.	  Discussion	Paper	for	Plenary	Session	2 	2018	SME	Ministerial	Conference.	2223	  February	2018 	Mexico	City 	Mexico.	  •  Ono 	A. 	Hasumi 	R.	and	Hirata 	H.	(2014) 	Differentiated	use	of	small	business	credit	  scoring	by	relationship	lenders	and	transactional	lenders 	Evidence	from	firmbank	  matched	data	in	Japan.	Journal	of	Banking	and	Finance	42	(1) 	371380.	  •  Petersen 	M.	and	Rajan 	R.G.	(2002) 	Does	Distance	Still	Matter?	The	Information	  Revolution	in	Small	Business	Lending.	Journal	of	Finance	57	(6) 	25332570.	  •  Saito 	K.	and	Tsuruta 	D.	(2014) 	Adverse	selection	and	moral	hazard	in	Japanese	  credit	guarantees.	VOX	CEPR	Policy	Portal.	Retrieved	from	  •  https //voxeu.org/article/adverseselectionandmoralhazardjapanesecredit  guarantees	(November	21 2018).	  •  Shimizu 	S.	(2016) 	Structural	Reforms	of	Economy	and	Maintenance	of	Financial	  Infrastructure	Required	for	Asian	Economies.	RIM	Pacific	Business	and	Industries	  16	(63) 	63105	(in	Japanese).	    	    10	    SME	Policy	faced	with	Development	  	  of	Financial	Technology	  	    •  Shinozaki 	S.	(2012) 	A	New	Regime	of	SME	Finance	in	Emerging	Asia 	Empowering	  GrowthOriented	SMEs	to	Build	Resilient	National	Economies.	ADB	Working	Paper	  Series	on	Regional	Economic	Integration	No.	104.	  •  Small	and	Medium	Enterprise	Agency.	(2015) 	2015	White	Paper	on	Small	and	  Medium	Enterprises	in	Japan.	National	Association	of	Trade	Promotion	for	Small	  and	Medium	Enterprises.	  •  Thompson 	J. 	Boschmans 	K.	and	Pissareva	L.	(2018) 	Alternative	Financing	  Instruments	for	SMEs	and	Entrepreneurs 	The	case	of	capital	market	finance.	OECD	  SME	and	Entrepreneurship	Papers	No.	10.	  •  Uesugi 	I. 	Sakai 	K.	and	Yamashiro 	G.	(2010) 	The	Effectiveness	of	Public	Credit	  Guarantees	in	the	Japanese	Loan	Market.	Journal	of	the	Japanese	and	International	  Economies	24	(4) 	457480.	  •  US	Small	Business	Administration	Office	of	Advocacy.	(2017) 	Annual	Report	of	the	  Office	of	Economic	Research	FY	2017.	  •  Watanabe 	T.	and	Uesugi 	I.	(2008) 	Examining	SME	Finance.	Nikkei	Publishing	Inc	  (in	Japanese).	  •  Yamashita 	S. 	Kawaguchi 	N.	and	Tsuruga 	T.	(2003) 	Consideration	and	Comparison	  of	Evaluation	Methods	for	the	Credit	Risk	Model.	Financial	Research	and	Training	  Center	discussion	paper	series	11	(in	Japanese).		  •  Yamori 	N.	(2006) 	Corporate	Demand	for	Financial	Services	and	Issues	in	SME	  Finance.	RIETI	Discussion	Paper	Series	06J003	(in	Japanese).	  •  Yoshino 	N.	and	TaghizadehHesary 	F.	(2014) 	Analytical	Framework	on	Credit	  Risks	for	Financing	Small	and	Mediumsized	Enterprises	in	Asia.	AsiaPacific	  Development	Journal	21	(2) 	122.	  •  Yoshino 	N.	and	Yamagami 	H.	(2017) 	Monetary	Economics 	Practice	and	Theory.	  Keio	University	Press	(in	Japanese).	  	    	    11	    