here  in file  Indian Journal of Economics & Business  Vol. 19  No.1 (2019)   8593    FINANCIAL INCLUSION  THE ROLE OF FINTECH    AND DIGITAL FINANCIAL SERVICES IN INDIA    VINAY KANDPAL* AND RAJAT MEHROTRA**    Abstract    The cashless transaction system is achieving its growth day by day  as soon as the  market becomes globalized and the development of the banking sector more and more  the people moves from cash to a cashless system. The cashless system is not just a  necessity but also a need of today’s order. Over the past few years  efforts to drive  financial inclusion in India have delivered mixed results. Access to bank accounts  has increased dramatically  driven by a strong policy and regulatory push. However   the usage of these accounts and the uptake of formal financial services beyond savings  accounts has remained exceptionally difficult. The recent initiatives by the Government  around  demonetization  and  the  move  to  cashless  transactions  will  further  drive  innovation and new entrants into the Industry. The amendments to the banking act  clearly demonstrate the Government  RBI and Banking institutions intent to ensure  stable growth of the economy by ensuring a healthy BFSI. Building Trust within the  industry  will  be  paramount  to  India’s  further  growth.  Newer  technologies  pose  different challenges to the banks and regulators  with security being a key concern.  With cyberfrauds on the rise  the regulators and the bankers would have to come  together to ensure control mechanisms are in place. A strong push from the Government  of India has given the nonbanking population easy access to financial products.  Payment organizations have demonstrated the advantages of mobileled solutions  and the traditional banking organizations are now trying to make inroads into rural  India by launching innovative mobilebased banking solutions. With support from  the government  large technology companies are using new ways of reaching out to  the rural masses and educate them about the various financial products  thus ensuring  that their hardearned income is rightly invested.  Keywords   Financial  Transactions   Digital  Apps   Rural  Population   JEL  Classifications  G    INTRODUCTION  With  the  progress  of  the  Indian  economy   especially  when  the  focus  is  on  the  achievement of sustainable development  there must be an attempt to include the    * Assistant  Professor   University  of  Petroleum  &  Energy  Studies   Dehradun   Email     ** Assistant Professor  Lal Bahadur Shastri Institute of Management & Technology  Bareilly  Email     vkandpal@ddn.upes.ac.in    akki06jr@gmail.com    86     Vinay Kandpal and Rajat Mehrotra    maximum number of participants from all the sections of the society. The lack of  awareness  and  financial  literacy  among  the  rural  population  of  the  country  is  hindering the growth of the economy  a majority of the population does not have  access  to  formal  credit.  This  is  a  serious  issue  for  the  economic  progress  of  the  country. In order to overcome such barriers  the banking sector emerged with some  technological  innovations  such  as  automated  teller  machines  (ATM)   credit  and  debit  cards   internet  banking   etc.  Though  the  introduction  of  such  banking  technologies brought a change in the urban society  a majority of the rural population  is still unaware of these changes and is excluded from formal banking.    Fintech is a new term and has been gaining popularity since early 2015. This  term  is  usually  confused  for  being  a  strictly  technological  and  techsavvy  term.  When in reality this term is the merger of financial services provided by various  clients with the developments and advancements in the technological arena.    The  basic  point  is  that  Fintech  developed  more  as  a  necessity  out  of  the  developments  in  the  areas  of  financing  services  and  the  rapid  growth  of  the  technology that due to the need of such services. The merger of technology with  financial  service  here  means  that  various  applications  and  platforms  are  being  built and developed to provide you with an ease of using financial services including  applying for business loans  online personal loans  etc. easily.    Review of Literature  Development Research Project (2013) attempted to understand the financial  needs of poor in longterm and shortterm by exploring  how the surplus fund is  used  to  meet  shortterm   longterm  and  emergency  requirements  to  develop  strategies  for  financial  inclusion  and  designing  financial  products.  The  rural  households  follow  their  own  strategies  of  cash  management  for  their  daily  expenditure  and  thereby  taking  advantage  of  this   several  informal  financial  institutions and instruments are serving this section of society. In this context  the  report examines 107 households of Ernakulam district in Kerala  as was suggested  by the RBI. The aim of the study was to understand the nature of the cash flows  and outflows of a sample of poor households in the district. The project also analyzed  the cash flow management strategies of the poor households. Further assessment  was done to analyze the structure of the financial assets and liabilities of the poor  households. The project focuses on the saving patterns of the poor households and  examined factors responsible for the extent of dependence of the poor on formal  and informal financial instruments /institutions for savings and credit. Two methods  were used in this project for collecting data. First  the sample of poor household  using questionnaire and keeping a track using financial diary method of the same  sample. Second  the analysis provided emphasis on rural and urban    CRISIL (2013) measured the extent of financial inclusion in India in the form  of an index. It makes use of the nonmonetary aggregates for calculating financial  inclusion. The parameters used by the CRISIL Inclusix took into account the number    Financial Inclusion  The Role of Fintech and Digital Financial Services in India    87    of individuals having access to various financial services rather than focusing on  the loan amount. The three parameters of the index were the branch  deposit and  credit  penetration.  These  parameters  were  updated  annually  and  based  on  the  availability of data; additional services such as insurance and microfinance were  added. The key findings of the report were as follows  one in two Indians has a  savings account and only one in seven Indians has access to banking credit; CRISIL  Inclusix at an allIndia level stood at a relatively low level of 40.1 for 2011 (on a  scale of 100). In short  CRISIL gave groundlevel information regarding the progress  of financial inclusion in the country’s rural and in urban areas.    RBI (2014a) focused on the provision of Financial Services to small businesses  and lowincome households. Among the main motives of the committee included  designing principles for maximum financial inclusion and financial deepening and  framing policies for monitoring the progress in the development of financial inclusion  in India. Thus  in order to achieve the goal of maximum financial inclusion and  increased  access  to  financial  inclusion  the  committee  proposed  the  following  measures  provision of fullservice electronic bank account; distribution of Electronic  Payment Access Points for easy deposit and withdrawal facilities; provision of credit  products   investment  and  deposit  products   insurance  and  risk  management  products by formal institutions. The main findings of the report highlighted the  following key issues. First  the majority of the small businesses were operating  without  the  help  of  formal  financial  institutions.  Second   more  than  half  of  the  rural and urban population did not have access to the bank account. Third  savings  in terms of GDP have declined in 201112. To address these issues  the Committee  recommended that each individual should have a Universal Electronic Bank Account  while registering for an Aadhar card. The committee also proposed for setting up of  payments  banks  with  the  purpose  of  providing  payments  services  and  deposit  products to small businesses and lowincome households. In addition  banks should  purchase portfolio insurance  which will help in managing their credit exposures.  Further  the Committee recommended for setting up of a State Finance Regulatory  Commission where all the state level financial regulators will work together. For  the interest of the bank account holders  the committee recommended for the creation  of Financial Redress Agency (FRA) for customer grievance redress across all financial  products and services  which would coordinate with the respective regulator.    RBI  (2014b)  presented  a  report  to  study  various  challenges  and  evaluate  alternatives in the domain of technology that can help the largescale expansion of  mobile banking across the country. The report divided the challenges into 2 broad  categories – Customer enrollment related issues and Technical issues. Customer  enrollment related issues include mobile number registration  MPIN (mobile pin)  generation process  concerns relating to security as a factor affecting onboarding of  customers  education of bank’s staff and customer education. On the other hand   technical issues include access channels for transactions  cumbersome transaction  process   and  coordination  with  MNOs  (Mobile  Network  Operators)  in  a  mobile  banking ecosystem. The report has a detailed comparison of four channels of mobile    88     Vinay Kandpal and Rajat Mehrotra    banking    SMS  (Short  Message  Service)   USSD  (Unstructured  Supplementary  Service  Data)   IVRS  (Interactive  Voice  Response  System)  and  Mobile  Banking  Application  and evaluates each one of them based on accessibility  security  and  usability. To resolve the different problems identified  the report suggests developing  a common mobile application  using SMS and GPRS channels  for all banks and  telecom operators. The aforementioned application should enable the user to perform  basic mobile banking operations such as enquiring his/her account balance  transfer  and remittance of money. The application is expected to be developed in such a way  that it provides a simple menu driven  interactive interface to the user. Such an  application can be developed by the combined efforts of telecom operators and banks.  The application can be embedded on all new SIM cards so that any person buying  a new card has a preinstalled application. For customers already using SIM cards   the application can be transferred “over the air” (OTA) using a dynamic STK (SIM  Application Tool Kit) facility.    Issues Affecting Fintech in India  Although India has been rising to match the other countries with their Fintech  developments  it is clear that India is quite behind when compared to them. India  has  a  huge  market  for  growth  in  this  sector.  However   there  are  many  factors   which make it hard for the Fintech sector in this country to rise and be equal to the  more developed markets and economies.    Some of these factors are discussed below   Low Internet Penetration  For Fintech sector to grow in a population as big  as India’s population  we need a good connectivity. However  as we know  India  does not have that. The majority of the population is still very new to the concept of  smartphones and other gadgets; therefore  the connection via the internet is still in  the developing stage.    Bank Accounts  India has a huge population and is a great economy for the  Fintech sector  but sad as it sounds the majority of India’s population lives in rural  areas or is below the poverty line. In addition to this  there are many people who do  not even own bank accounts  which makes it hard for Fintech to grow in the Indian  economy.    An  absence  of  Hardware  and  More  Hands   The  absence  of  the  right  hardware and the right information makes it rather hard for this new sector to  grow. The growth of this sector largely depends upon the understanding of the new  language and put that into work. The absence of the easy to understand language  for the local people has been causing a lot of trouble for the sector. This not only  leads to fewer hands and minds to work in the given sector but also reduces the  population that understands the working of the new Fintech sector.    Lack of Funds  Majority of the Fintech sector applications are the children of  startups. In addition  it is common knowledge that startups usually are not able    Financial Inclusion  The Role of Fintech and Digital Financial Services in India    89    to raise enough funds for their projects. A lack of resources  difficulty in getting  business loans is as bad as a lack of idea. India could grow into a great market for  Fintech  but the present scenario with the funds and money does not give enough  space for this sector to grow up to its potential.    Although India has a huge population  which favors the growth of the new and  budding Fintech sector  the economy and the present scenario of the country is not  favorable for its growth. The major difference between the global Fintech sector  and the Indian industry is the presence of various factors that hamper the growth  of Fintech in India  as discussed earlier. India may be able to stand shoulder to  shoulder with the more developed economies when all these factors as mentioned  will begin to disappear. The primary requirement for any Fintech startup to settle  will be a consumer base  a high internet penetration  and more minds to work on  the project.    India is growing at a fast pace  and due to many changes in the economy  a  great revolution is coming in the financial sector with the emergence of Fintech. As  the need for business loans rises  more and more people are coming to terms with  the idea of digital lending. The market is still new  and our economy is still growing.  Therefore  in the coming years  this sector will grow as well.    Innovative  business  models  have  enabled  fintech  companies  to  emerge  as  a  catalyst for growth for SMEs  not just locally but globally too. Fintech companies  are thus becoming a ‘onestop shop’ for the financial needs of small enterprises.  Online lending platforms (as opposed to subsectors such as payments or wealth  management) are seeing several new entrants in the market offering novel financial  products.  The  potential  impact  of  fintech’s  efficient  lending  processes  can  be  measured in sever    According to Mckinsey  a substantial majority (about 75%) of fintech lenders  are focusing on retail banking  lending  wealth management  and payment systems  for MSMEs. The numbers look promising despite the ineligibility for classification  as direct or indirect finance to MSE sector that takes all such loans to NBFCs out  of the ‘priority sector classification.’ It isn’t surprising then that MSMEs are turning  away from traditional  collateralchasing banks. Even the investor sentiment is  positive vis a vis the touted success of Fintech.  Future Prospects of Fintech towards Financial Inclusion  The  importance  of  MSMEs  as  a  major  driver  of  the  economy  and  a  critical  employment generator cannot be overstated. Moreover  there is a large market of  unserved/underserved populations that Fintech can reach out to. This game changer  for inclusion has only reached elite customers in TierI and TierII cities of India so  far. The need of the hour is to innovate for the mass market and address challenges  such as lack of financial and digital literacy and restrictive regulatory policy. In  addition  being able to sustain relations with SME customers despite delinquencies  is an onus that rests entirely on a Fintech organization. The problem of delayed    90     Vinay Kandpal and Rajat Mehrotra    payment  in  financing   more  so  in  the  MSME  space   tantamount  to  being  an  occupational hazard that cannot be done away with. However  looking at the bigger  picture  ensuring continuity of partnerships  and staying resilient is the key. In  addition  there is substantial interest from foreign investors in the Indian Fintech  space  wanting to capitalize on the country’s steadily growing GDP. Initiatives such  as ‘Digital India’  ‘Make in India’  the recent demonetization drive and the push to  make India a cashless economy are laying strong foundations for synergies between  Fintech and MSMEs.    Technology and the Financial Services in the Indian Market  Understood simply  Fintech refers to the scope of financial services that can be  available on digital platforms. This new disruption in the banking and financial  services sector has had a wideranging impact.  Scope for Growth in India  Fintech service firms are currently redefining the way companies and consumers  conduct transactions on a daily basis. This is why global investments into Fintech  ventures have been increasing at record speed – tripling to US$ 12.2 billion in 2014  from US$ 4.05 billion in 2013  and reaching US$ 19.1 billion in 2015. In India  the  scale has been much smaller but at similar growth rates – investment in India’s  Fintech industry grew 282 percent between 2013 and 2014 and reached US$ 450  million in 2015.    Additionally  India has a large untapped market for financial service technology  startups – 40 percent of the population is currently not connected to banks and 87  percent of payments are made in cash. With mobile usage expected to increase to  64 percent in 2018 from 53 percent currently  and internet penetration steadily  climbing  the growth potential for Fintech in India cannot be overstated. Moreover   by some estimates  as much as 90 percent of small businesses are not linked to  formal financial institutions. These gaps in access to institutions and services offer  important scope to develop Fintech solutions (such as funding  finance management)  and expand the market base.    Disruptive Potential in the Traditional Finance and Banking Sector  Fintech firms are breaking new ground in the formal finance sector through the  innovative  and  dynamic  use  of  technology  in  the  lending  process.  For  instance   while  traditional  banks  (around  100)  and  NBFCs  (around  1100)  in  India  use  technology to simply calculate credit scores  Fintech ventures use machine learning  algorithms and alternative data points such as social media footprints  call records   shopping histories  and payments to utility service providers to increase efficiency  and provide greater access to credit. The turnaround time is also much faster for  the approval and disbursal of loans by Fintech firms despite several banks (State  Bank  of  India   ICICI   HDFC   and  Axis  bank)  digitizing  and  speeding  up  these  processes markedly.    Financial Inclusion  The Role of Fintech and Digital Financial Services in India    91    Challenges and Opportunities for Fintech Expansion  While digital finance firms have benefited from the government’s prostartup policies  and  flexible  regulatory  conditions  imposed  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI)   formal  institutions  possess  an  established  infrastructure  and  legacy  that  is  not  easily replaceable. Fintech startups need to instill greater confidence among Indian  customers   already  known  for  being  conservative  in  their  financial  preferences.  Figuring out how to market to their needs and influence financial behavior are  some of the biggest challenges  as is setting up a strong and responsive regulatory  infrastructure to keep pace with the speed of technological innovation.    On the other hand  traditional banking and financial institutions can leverage  their existing customer base and adopt digital products that nurture strong financial  relationships  while  improving  service  efficiency  and  broadening  access  to  meet  changing needs. The disruptive potential of Fintech firms can provoke the much  needed modernization of the traditional sector  reducing costs in the process and  increasing the size of the banking population.    Responding to these opportunities and challenges  banks like HDFC and Axis  have launched mobile phone applications to ease digital transactions; Federal Bank  announced  a  partnership  with  Startup  Village  to  develop  innovative  banking  products;  U.K.  giant  Barclays  is  set  to  operationalize  its  fifth  global  Fintech  innovation  center  that  will  be  located  in  India;  and  Goldman  Sachs  Principal  Strategic Investments Group (GSPSI) is looking to invest in Bengaluru’s Fintech  startup scene.    Thus   the  growth  prospects  in  technological  innovation  may  not  necessarily  produce  a  mutually  exclusive  relationship  between  traditional  institutions  and  Fintech firms in India.    The Right Combination of Incentives  Policies  and Regulation  Initiatives by the RBI and parallel government efforts have focused on fostering  financial  inclusion.  This  has  meant  encouraging  competition  and  innovation  in  India’s nascent Fintech sector on a more or less even playing field. This has allowed  both online and offline solutions to emerge and has created a safer financial system  with farreaching access.    Reserve Bank of India  The RBI recently set up a multidisciplinary committee  to study the Fintech business in India. The goal is to understand the risks involved  and the emergence of new models and assess how the banking system could then  adapt and respond to them. The RBI has so far promoted the Unified Payments  Interface and the Bharat Bill Payments System  as well as digital payments  P2P  lending  and the use of automated algorithms to offer financial advice. Moreover   the RBI has granted licenses to 11 Fintech entities to establish payment banks  that provide savings  deposit  and remittance services.    92     Vinay Kandpal and Rajat Mehrotra    Government  Schemes   These  include  the  Jan  Dhan  Yojana   Digital  India  program  and Aadhar’s Unique Identification system that have provided important  enabling platforms for technology innovators. In addition  egovernance systems  promoted  by  the  current  government  facilitate  transparency  by  removing  the  involvement of intermediaries. The removal of surcharges on electronic transactions   tax  benefits  for  consumers  and  businesses  using  epayments   and  changes  in  authentication  requirements  are  other  examples  of  the  government’s  efforts  to  encourage the growth of a Fintech ecosystem in India.    Fintech Startup Sector  This is probably the greatest empowering incentive  towards the expansion of Fintech ventures in India. An encouraging regulatory  environment has enabled the launching of 174 Fintech startups in 2015 alone  as  per data analytics company  Traxcn. As mentioned earlier  several national and  international banks and investment groups are also investing in India’s Fintech  startups and funding Fintech solutions.    Observations  The digital and technological revolution transformed business  operations across all industries  and the financial and banking sector is no exception.  What is heartening is that the Indian government and regulatory institutions have  in effect promoted an entrepreneurial rather than obstructive climate for Fintech  in India. However  policies and governance will need to match the speed of innovation  in this sector  particularly to ensure secure and transparent growth.    Conclusion  Normally customer’s confidence and trust in traditional banking  system will make customers less likely to adopt new technologies. New technologies  will not be successful until customers are satisfied with privacy and security aspects.  It also requires some time to earn confidence among the customers even it is easier  and cheaper than the traditional methods.    References    Agarwal  Parul (2014)  “Financial Inclusion in India  a Review and Initiatives and Achievements”     IOSR Journal of Business and Management  Volume 16  Issue 6  June.    Chakrabarty K.C. (2011)  Keynote address on Financial Inclusion  Mumbai  September.  Chakrabarty  K.C. (2012)  “Financial Inclusion  Issues in Measurement and Analysis”  Keynote  address  BISBNM Workshop on Financial Inclusion Indicators  Kuala Lumpur  November.    CRISIL (2013)  “Inclusix Financial Inclusion Index”  June.  Euromonitor International (2010)  “Emerging Focus  Emerging market economies drive global    growth in mobile connectivity”  November.    Gupta  Sanjeev Kumar (2011)  “Financial Inclusion – IT as an enabler”  RBI Occasional Paper     Volume 32  No. 2.    Government of India (2008)  “Committee on Financial Inclusion” (Chairman  Dr. C. Rangarajan).  India Post (2012)  “Book of Information”.  India Post (2013)  “Annual Report”.  Joshi   Deepali  P.  (2014)   “Strategy  Adopted  For  Financial  Inclusion”   Speech   Workshop  of    Government of Madhya Pradesh  New Delhi  January.    Financial Inclusion  The Role of Fintech and Digital Financial Services in India    93    K.  Divya (2014)  “A Study On Impact Of Financial Inclusion With Reference To Daily Wage  Earners”  Journal of Business Management & Social Sciences Research  Volume 2  No. 6   June.    Kamath  Rajalaxmi (2008) “Ramanagaram Financial Diaries  Loan repayments and cash patterns    of the urban slums”  IIMB Working paper 268.    Ministry of Consumer Affairs  Food and Public Distribution (2011)  “Number of Ration Shops in    the country”  June.    Planning Commission (2009)  “Report on Financial Sector Reforms” (Chairman  Dr. Raghuram    G. Rajan).    Radcliffe   Dan  (2012)   “A  Digital  Pathway  to  Financial  Inclusion”   Bill  &  Melinda  Gates    Foundation.    RBI (2005)  “Report on Rural Credit and microfinance” (Chairman  H.R. Khan).  RBI (2013)  “How the poor manage their finances; A study of the portfolio choices of poor households  in Ernakulam district  Kerala”  Development Research Project  Mumbai and Centre for Socio  Economic and Environmental Studies  Kochi.    RBI (2014)  “Annual Report”.  RBI (2014) “Quarterly Report”  June.  RBI (2014a)  “Report on comprehensive financial services for small businesses and lowincome    households” (Chairman  Dr. N. Mor).    RBI  (2014b)   “Report  of  the  Technical  Committee  on  Mobile  Banking”  (Chairman   Mr.  B    Sambamurthy).    Srikanth  R. (2013)  “A Study on  Financial Inclusion  Role of Indian Banks in Reaching Out to  the Unbanked and Backward Areas”  International Journal of Applied Research and Studies   Volume 2  Issue 9  September.    Subbiah  Nalini (2014)  “Role of Banks in Financial Inclusion”  Research Journal of Commerce    and Behavioural Science  Volume 1  No. 4.    Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (2014)  “Highlights on Telecom Subscription Data”  New    Delhi  May.    