here  in file  LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019  ISSN 23564008    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented  Instrument for Financial Inclusion?  Chaikal Nuryakin1 (cid 70)  Lovina Aisha  & Natanael Waraney Gerald Massie    Abstract  This study aims to delve deeper into the discussion on how the ﬁnancial inclusion progress in Indonesia could be affected  by the growing ﬁntech industry. We shall comprehensively discuss the current state of the platforms in the country   including the potential beneﬁts and challenges. Such afﬂictions include the hugelyconcentrated deposit market  to  begin with and the discrepancies between regulators and the technological changes  while the high internet and mobile  phone penetration are only one of the many advantages the country are endowed with. The study aims to highlight the  challenges faced in increasing ﬁnancial inclusion before the ﬁntech platforms begin to ﬂourish and how they differ to the  current condition. Novel and relevant policy recommendations are also provided in the latter parts of the discussion.    JEL Classiﬁcation  G21; G28  Keywords  ﬁnancial inclusion — ﬁnancial technology — Indonesia — digital divide    1Institute for Economic and Social Research  Faculty of Economics and Business  Universitas Indonesia  (cid 70)Corresponding author  Jl. Salemba Raya No. 4  Jakarta  10430  Indonesia. Email  chaikall@gmail.com.    1. Introduction    Financial inclusion has been one of the government’s focus  in recent years. Efforts have been made to help more Indone  sian acquire access to ﬁnancial services. The growth has  been remarkable – in fact  Indonesia had the biggest account  ownership increase in the region as the number increased  from 20 percent in 2011  to 36 percent in 2014 and 49 per  cent in 2017 (World Bank  2018). Even the population with  the least amount of ownership  i.e.  the poorest 40 percent   the rural population  young adults  and those outside the  labor force  have been showing signiﬁcant progress in a  mere six years period of ﬁnancial account ownership.    As of 2014  around 8 percent of the population aged 15  or more used debit cards for purchasing. The ﬁgure grew to  11 percent in 2017 (DemirgucKunt et al.  2018). A similar  story is observed regarding the poorest 40 percent of the  population  as the proportion of such subset making digi  tal payments in 2014 stands at 7 percent and subsequently  growing to 14 percent in 2017 percent. Noticeably  the ﬁ  nancial inclusion indicators in Indonesia show considerable  growth and penetration. However  the number might not be  enough  as the country still trails to the developing countries  in other regions  such as Brazil  India  and Russia.    Recent dynamics have seen another major player enter  ing the market – ﬁnancial technologies or ﬁntech. Capitu  lating on the immense penetration of mobile and internet  usage in Indonesia  the platform has enabled the Indone  sian customers to get easier access to lending (borrowing).  Companies such as Investree  Modalku  and Koinworks are  only a few of the ﬂourishing ﬁntechbased startups in the  country. However  the ﬁntech companies are still only pen  etrating the urban and suburban population. In light of the  massive and rapid changes in the originally illprepared ﬁ  nancial inclusion landscape  such advancements may bring  not only beneﬁts but also the possibility of a ‘digital divide’    in the ﬁnancial market. As the banked and underbanked  population in the urban areas are getting better access to the  ﬁnancial services through such platforms  the unbanked and  those living in the more rural areas are arguably stagnating.  This study aims to discuss the beneﬁts and the potential  of such entry in the Indonesian context. We cover  ﬁrst  the  technological and ﬁnancial progress of the country. Sec  ond  we describe our classiﬁcation of banking users in  this study  in which we introduce our deﬁnition of ‘under  banked’ citizens. We then proceed to discuss the ﬁntech’s  entry into the landscape. Following the section is a compar  ison between Indonesia’s case and the other  bestpractice  countries’ cases. We emphasize the distinction between  the Indonesian progress and the others’ through which we  deem the former to be rather ‘trapped’ amid the exponen  tial progress. We conclude the paper by bringing up the  debate on whether the progress induces more inclusion or  fragmentation instead.    2. The Mobilecaptured Society    Financial technology in Indonesia  along with the other  digital economy aspects such as ecommerce and sharing  economy platforms  has also been supported by the penetra  tion of internet and telecommunication devices. Noticeably   internet penetration in Indonesia showed a positive trend  throughout the last decade. It started from 500 000 users  in 1998 and reached 143 260 000 of internet users in 2017  (APJII  2017)  the majority of which are in the young age  category  which ranges from 1334 years old. APJII’s survey  in 2017 states that the penetration of the internet in an age  category is quite varied. The highest amount of penetrations  was obtained by the 1318 years old group (75.5%)  the sec  ond was obtained by the 1934 years old group (74.23%)   the third was 35–54 years old group (44.06%)  and the last  was >54 years old group (15.72%).    1    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 2/9    Figure 1. Brimming with progress – Ownership of ﬁnancial institution account in Indonesia    Source  World Bank (2018)    Figure 2. Internet Users in Indonesia (in millions)    Source  APJII (2017)    Despite the high penetration  the number or actual in  ternet users was much lower than the amount of internet  penetration. Based on the age category  internet users who  were in 1318 years old group only accounts for 16.68%  of samples  19–34 years old users account for 49.52% of  samples  34–54 years old users account for 29.55% of sam  ples  and >54 years old users account for 4.24% of samples.  Majority of internet users who get penetrated more were in  postgraduate or doctoral education  and the internet users  who get penetrated less didn’t have any educational degree.  Penetration of the internet also revolving mostly on high  income society (93.10%)  rather than the lowest income so  ciety (21.72%). However  the composition of internet usage  was dominated by lower income society (74.62%) contrast  ing with the highincome society internet users (1.98%).  Lastly  internet penetration was higher in the urban area  (72.41%) rather than the ruralurban area (49.49%) and  rural area (48.25%). Most of Indonesians experienced in  ternet penetration in 2014–2016 (37.12%) or 2011–2013  (28.61%)  and the rest was in the year before 2011.    whelming online networking use and webbased businesses  (ecommerce). Their social media usage is among the most  elevated of any population in the world. In 2016  the rev  enue of the webbased business in Indonesia added up to  USD6 billion  where 78 percent of current Internet clients  made online buys. The business is required to develop by  around 18 percent every year in the following ﬁve years   achieving a market volume of USD16.4 billion before the  ﬁnish of 2020 (based on McKinsey projection in 2016).    Besides  Indonesia is a mobileﬁrst nation; around 75  percent of the online buys are made through cellphones.  Statistic of internet usage in Indonesia is surpassing the  developed nations  for example  the United States  where  these media have been around longer and are ﬁrmly settled.  Moreover  Indonesia’s Internet population is expecting to  be higher in the future because of the growing accessibility  of the portable Internet just as the expanding accessibility  of cheap telephones. Indonesia is relied upon to include  50 million new Internet clients from 2015 to 2020  might  achieve a penetration rate of more than 53 percent.    At any rate  Indonesian internet users are very digitally  savvy. They are ”netizens” with a requirement for a steady  network  instant information  and developing more crav  ing for digital content. They spend a higher than average  amount of time on the Internet  primarily captivating in over    The telecommunication sector in Indonesia is one of  the world’s most crowded cellular telecoms market due to  its large population  its huge archipelago  and the current  moderate cost in the technology gadgets markets. The quan  tities of mobile subscribers in Indonesia achieves around    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 3/9    278 million  while there are 11 million ﬁxed line endorsers.  Just about 85 percent of the Indonesian population possess  cell phones while 43 percent carry cell phones. Mobile oper  ators are picking up power in the Internet Service Provider  (ISP) part since a large portion of the roughly 53 million  web clients in Indonesia is using their cell phones to access  the internet. Further  ﬁxedline ISPs also aim for corporate  and private clients while in the same time concentrating  on upgrading their infrastructures by building ﬁberoptic  systems of changing sizes and capacities in some biggest  urban areas in Indonesia (ICLG  2018).    Major operators for mobile subscribers in Indonesia are  Telkomsel  Indosat Ooredoo and XL Axiata; they dominate  80 percent of the telecommunication sector. The mobile  sector is expected to gain 78 percent revenue growth in  2019 as all major operators race to expand 4G coverage in  the region and capitalize on the growing demand for data  (DBS  2018). Since the ﬁrst half of 2017 to the third quarter  of 2018  highspeed ﬁxed broadband household penetration  in Indonesia has doubled  from 4 to 8 percent  showing  the development by all major ﬁxed broadband players to  increase their coverage regions to proﬁt on the ”growing  appetite” for highspeed data among the expanding middle  income class in Indonesia. DBS Bank (2018) expects to  see penetration of highspeed broadband services rising  to at least 20 percent over the next three years  adding  approximately 9 million new households to the highspeed  broadband segment.    Further  the majority of total Indonesia population have  already had communication devices. This data is obtained  from a survey made by Asosiasi Penyelenggara Jasa In  ternet Indonesia (APJII) in 2017. Survey results showed  that out of 262 million people in Indonesia  50.08 per  cent have smartphone/tablet and 25.72 percent have com  puter/laptop. This means  around 131 209 600 people own  smartphone/tablet and 67 386 400 people own computer/laptop  in Indonesia. To access the Internet  out of 143.26 million  Internet users  44.16 percent use smartphone/tablet  4.49  percent use computer/laptop  39.28 percent use both  and  12.07 percent use other devices. Even so  these ownerships  are still concentrated in urban areas  especially in Java.    In urban areas  82.6 million (31.55%) people own com  puter/laptop and 185.9 million (70.96%) people own smart  phone/tablet. These amounts are signiﬁcantly higher if com  pared to ruralurban and rural areas. In ruralurban areas   people who own computer/laptop and smartphone/table are  only 61.3 million (23.42%) and 119 million (45.42%) re  spectively. Meanwhile  there is only a slight difference in  communicative devices ownership between ruralurban and  rural areas. Result shows that around 62.3 million (23.83%)  own computer/laptop and 110 million (42.06%) own smart  phone/tablet in rural areas.    Smartphones/tablets are the most common communica  tion devices that people use. But  in all areas (urban  rural  urban  and rural)  number of people owning both smart  phone/tablet and computer/laptop exceed 30%. Around  17.19% of Internet users own more than one computer/laptop   and 4.25% own more than one smartphone/tablet. This  could be seen as a successful penetration of telecommunica  tion devices into Indonesia as the number of ownerships in  Indonesia is high and owning more than one is perceptible.    APJII (2017) found that even though the number of Internet  users has been increasing compared to the year before and  the number of telecommunication devices ownerships is  high  the Internet usage for banking purpose is only 7.39%.  This amount is low if compared to the usage for chatting  (89.35%)  social media (87.13%)  search engine (74.84%)   downloading video (70.23%)  uploading a ﬁle (35.99%)   and email (33.58%). Meanwhile  in the economic category   Internet usage for banking transaction only accounts for  17.04%. Also  only 928 900 out of 132.7 million (0.7%)  Internet users are using their telecommunication devices for  emoney purpose (APJII  2016). Nevertheless  this percent  age is bound to get higher as the potential growth of the  Internet and telecommunication devices are substantial.    2.1 The ‘Underbanked’  Next  we shall discuss the ﬁnancial landscape of the country.  The current ﬁnancial landscape in the country consists of the  ﬁnancial services concentration being heavily concentrated  in multiple aspects. First  in terms of the ﬁnancial services  concentration  the country is still being heavily reliant on the  banking sector. It was reported that around 79 percent of the  country’s ﬁnancial services was dominated by banks  while  other types of ﬁnancial institutions remain insigniﬁcant  (World Bank  2010). Other types of ﬁnancial institutions  remain scarce  including the likes of the ﬁnance companies  (5 percent)  insurer (6 percent)  pension funds (4 percent)   securities ﬁrm (2 percent)  mutual funds (2 percent)  and  the more traditional/rural institutions including pawnshops  (2 percent).    Second  regarding the distribution of the ﬁnancial insti  tution geographically  the concentration was reported to be  heavier in the Western part of Indonesia. The previously  mentioned report explained that ﬁnancial institutions are  more densely available in the western part of Indonesia  par  ticularly Java  Sumatra  and Bali (World Bank  2010). The  report suggested that the Indonesian commercial banking  outlet was distributed mostly in Java (52 percent)  Sumatra  (22 percent)  Kalimantan (9 percent)  Sulawesi (8 percent)   Bali and Nusa Tenggara (5 percent)  and Maluku as well as  Papua (4 percent).    Such concentrations have put citizens particularly in  underserved areas under certain difﬁculties to access ﬁ  nancial services. As this study also focuses on the Small  and Medium Enterprises (SMEs)  we are also interested in  observing the challenges endured by the particular subset.  There have been several barriers such as SMEs face daily  related to the ﬁnancial services. First  the SMEs are still  struggling to seek ﬁnancing. Several reasonings are associ  ated with such difﬁculty; the lack of collateral requirements  and the highinterest rates are a few of the main hindrance  for the SMEs in accessing the ﬁnancing they need. There  have also been problems such as the mismatch between the  loans repayment schemes with the seasonal nature of certain  SMEs income  such as those in the yieldbased sectors  i.e.   the farming and the ﬁsheries (World Bank  2010).    Further  the preferences of the SMEs are also hamper  ing their efforts in accessing formal ﬁnancing. Most of the  SMEs  especially at the smaller scales  do not have ofﬁcial  legal status (World Bank  2010). Such offthebook opera  tion made it difﬁcult not only for the SMEs in getting their    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 4/9    Figure 3. Capitulating the ripe market – Internet and mobile penetration in Indonesia    Source  World Bank (2018)    loans but also for the ﬁnancial institutions to adequately  assess the risks related to the proposed loans. The problem  is worsened by the fact that a considerable proportion of  the SMEs is still preferably conducting their transactions  in cash  despite being exposed and using banking services.  Despite the barriers  however  it is still worth noting that the  SMEs are still brimming with potential for the ﬁnancial in  dustry practitioners. As reported by the Bank Indonesia Fin  tech Ofﬁce  only 10 percent of all MSMEs are actively using  ecommerce platforms. With the right encouragements  the  untapped potential of the SMEs is only to be gained by the  industry and society.    In discussing the ﬁnancial landscape  one of the most  prominent issues is the banking ownership by the citizens.  This study classiﬁes the banking ownerships of Indonesian  citizens into three categories. First  we have banked citizens.  The category refers to the people or organizations with bank  ing account ownership and also access to ﬁnancial services   i.e.  credit cards  loans  and others. Second  we have the un  derbanked citizens. The classiﬁcation represents the people  or organizations who do not have sufﬁcient access to the  previouslymentioned ﬁnancial services but do own banking  accounts for saving. Lastly  we have the unbanked citizens  – those completely without banking accounts nor access to  ﬁnancial services.    The deﬁnitions above are slight modiﬁcations from the  one provided by World Bank (2010). In the report  the World  Bank classiﬁes the citizens into the banked citizens  prac  tically those with complete access to ﬁnancial institutions   and the unbanked citizens. Our study  however  argues that  the Indonesian landscape requires a ‘middleground’ clas  siﬁcation disentangling the ﬁnancial institutions into the  banking services and other ﬁnancial services  i.e.  lending   insurance  and others. The ones with access to the banking  services but not the other ﬁnancial services are the ones this  study classiﬁes as the ‘underbanked’ – the banked people  in terms of saving but not the others. For the records  the  World Bank (2010) reported that 32 percent of the Indone  sian population was classiﬁed as the unbanked.    Based on World Bank Global Findex Database  debit  card’s owner in rural Indonesia reached the 7% of popu  lation (2011)  and the debit card ownership showed the    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    increasing trend in the next period of survey. It reached 18%  of rural population in 2014 and 28% of rural population in  2017. On the other hand  credit card ownership in rural In  donesia still on its lowest point in 2011  no one in rural area  has credit card. In the next period of survey  credit card own  ership in Indonesia is getting higher. Credit card ownership  in rural Indonesia reached 1% of population in 2014 and 3%  of population in 2017. In developing countries  debit and  credit card ownership in rural areas tend to be lower than the  card ownership in urban areas. Global Findex survey used  different approach in every countries  which makes it hard  to make a consistent deﬁnition of the urbanrural partition  at the global and regional dimension. Another challenge  is that the estimates of account ownership for urban pop  ulations are often imprecise. Because of above condition   there is no data available of card ownership for the urban  area. Population in rural area needs more access to bank  facilities such as debit and credit card  in order to increase  the ﬁnancial inclusion Generally  urban population have  credit card ownership higher than rural population. They  need more ﬁnancial access other than bank  for example   ﬁntech services which could be accessed more easily in  urban areas due to higher internet usage.    In the conventional landscape  the interactions between  the aboveclassiﬁed citizens and the ﬁnancial services mar  ket players are presented in Table 1. The banked citizens  own saving accounts in banks  borrow money from the  banks  own insurances from the insurance companies  and  make payments through the banking services and by cash.  Meanwhile  the underbanked citizens living in the more ur  ban areas own saving accounts in banks but borrows money  from their local pawnshops. We assume their insurance  ownership to be relatively low and still make payments pre  dominantly by cash. The underbanked citizens living in the  more rural and remote areas  however  may not necessarily  possess similar traits with their urban counterparts. We as  sume that this type of citizens owns their saving accounts in  the local cooperatives  BPR (rural banks)  and even rotating  saving and credit association (ROSCA  in Bahasa  arisan).  They borrow from the local pawnshops  loan sharks  and  the arisan schemes  while making mostly cash payments.  The unbanked may have the all the similar characteristics    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 5/9    but the saving aspect – we assume they make their savings  not in the formal institutions such as cooperatives or rural  banks  but rather in the informal institutions such as the  arisan scheme.    It is important to note that the above classiﬁcations may  not perfectly represent the actual landscape of the country.  For the scope of the discussions  however  we deem the  generalizations adequate as they are to be heavily used in  the preceding sections.    As of 2009  notable progress on the country’s ﬁnancial  landscape was present. The year marked the launch of e  money platforms  such as Flazz  Tapcash  among others.  The usage of such platforms helped the customers to make  more comfortable payments. Now  the emoney circulation  has risen from 3 million in 2009 to a staggering 136 million  cards. While the growth has been nothing short of remark  able  it has to be noted that the majority of the usage is still  in Jawa.    3. Enter Financial Technology    The recent changes have seen the country experience a  ﬂourishing entry and growths of the ﬁnancial technology  (ﬁntech) platforms and companies. While there has yet to  be a formal deﬁnition for the ﬁntech itself  Dorﬂeinter et al.  (2017) deﬁne the term as the companies or representatives  of companies that combine ﬁnancial services with modern   innovative technologies. The ﬁntech’s ventures in Indonesia  has been done in numerous forms  including the bankbased  ﬁntech  the telcobased ﬁntech  the appsbased ﬁntech  and  the widely used ﬁntech lending.    Arner et al. (2015) found that ﬁntech refers to the use  of technology to deliver ﬁnancial solutions. Otoritas Jasa  Keuangan (OJK) stated that citizens need alternative fund  ing sources which are more ﬂexible  transparent  and can  reach a wider scope of the population than the traditional  ﬁnancial services provided by most banks  and the ﬁntech  concept can ﬁt the bill. The founded establishments such as  Asosiasi Fintech Indonesia (AFI) in September 2015 and  Bank Indonesia Fintech Ofﬁce in 2016 paved the way for a  wave of ﬂourishing ﬁntech companies since those are con  sidered as a sign of support for the ﬁntech companies to  thrive in Indonesia.    The number of ﬁntech proﬁles in Indonesia has signiﬁ  cantly increased; OJK recorded that the number of ﬁntech  operating companies registered at OJK improved from 32  in January 2018 to 106 in April 2019. Using data from  Bank Indonesia in 2017  as can be seen from Figure 3  the  paymentrelated companies dominate the ﬁntech landscape  with around 42% of all ﬁntech companies in Indonesia. The  next biggest sector is the lending companies  especially  peertopeer (P2P) lending  with around 33%. There are  only 14% of the ﬁntech companies operate in investment  and ﬁnance management ﬁeld  a minority in terms of the  proportion of ﬁntech companies in Indonesia.    The differences between the development progress of  each sector are compelling. For example  in the banking  industry  the amount of saving account reached 246 293 377  accounts in 2018  which was signiﬁcantly bigger when  compared to the number of investors in the stock market –  around 829.426 SID in 2018. Due to the high number of    Figure 4. Sectors of Fintech Platforms in Indonesia  Source  Indonesia Fintech Association Data (2017)    bank service users in Indonesia  the banking industry must  be able to develop their products rapidly to at least keep  the satisfaction level of the bank service users  and thus  retaining them as the banks’ customers. OJK in 2018 stated  that the banking industry has been developing its system to  fasten for the ease of doing ﬁnancial transaction by utilizing  digital advancement (digital banking).    The stock market  on the other hand  started to digitalize  its system relatively later than the banking industry. Fur  thermore  by using digital banking services  bank service  users can connect their digital banking accounts with many  marketplaces  while securities in the stock market are not as  liquid as the funds from the banking accounts when trans  acted to other marketplaces. Although with the apparent  discrepancy on the number of users between banking in  dustry and portfolio investment sector  the digital system  of the stock market in Indonesia has made it easier to open  an account in the stock market which should stimulate the  desire of investing in Indonesia.    As a fusion of ﬁnancial and technology services  ﬁntech  brings many beneﬁts for consumers. Financial technology  offers more product choices in fulﬁlling many needs  a bet  ter quality of services  and lower prices. Also  ﬁnancial  technology brings beneﬁts for the ﬁnancial system  such  as decentralization and diversiﬁcation which can dampen  the effects of the ﬁnancial shocks  the ability to be more  efﬁcient in operating ﬁnancial service activities since it re  duces time and place barriers in reaching more customers   also improvements in transparency since all ﬁnancial trans  actions are recorded on the internet and thus less asymmet  ric information  and eventually support ﬁnancial inclusion.  For the economy itself  ﬁnancial technology offers beneﬁts  such as supporting monetary policy transmissions  increas  ing money velocity which indicates the incremental of the  business sector’s productivity and eventually affects the  incremental of economic growth.    In 2014  the Bank of Indonesia and OJK (Otoritas Jasa  Keuangan) also launched two different forms of branch  less banking. The ﬁrst is a bankbased  and telcobased  ﬁntech referred to as the Digital Financial Services (DFS)  emoney. The DFS is registered electronic money on the  mobile phones and web facilitated by agents as the third par    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 6/9    Types    Saving    Lending    Insurance    Payment    Table 1. The conventional ﬁnancial services landscape in Indonesia    Banked  Underbanked (Urban)  Underbanked (Rural/Remote)  Unbanked    Source  Compiled by authors    Bank  Bank    Cooperatives  BPR  Arisan    Arisan  etc    Bank    Pawnshops    Pawnshops  loan sharks  Arisan  Pawnshops  loan sharks  Arisan    Insurance Company    –  –  –    Banking/Cash    Cash  Cash  Cash    ties. Meanwhile  the other form launched was the branchless  banking platform called Laku Pandai (Smart Act branch  less banking service). The latter is the provision of ﬁnan  cial product for communities yet to be covered by con  ventional ﬁnancial services. The two complemented the  ﬂourishing ﬁntech growth in Indonesia. As of the second  quarter of 2018  Laku Pandai agents have increased from  19 400 agents in the same period of 2015 into 740 000  agents (Nuryakin et al.  2018). Nuryakin et al.  however   reported that such growth is slowing down.    The widely used ﬁntech platform in the country is the  lendingbased ﬁntech platforms. The immense potential of  such platforms is shown to date  a total of USD56 million  have been invested in the country. The leading companies in  the industry are the likes of Investree  Modalku  Koinworks   among others. Early estimates suggest that while the number  of such companies is in the region of hundreds  the number  of registered companies is only 64 in June 2018. The lender  to borrower ratio of the companies are still well below one –  the estimates are at 0.07 as of September 2018. The numbers  can only grow in the future as more of the untapped market  is captured.    The involvement of the ﬁntech companies on the SMEs  is also not to be understated. As a reference  Investree  one  of the leading ﬁntech companies  has had 95 percent of all  their lending given to the MSMEs. As of July 2017  around  IDR241 billion was lent by the company  with a near zero  percent of nonperforming loan (NPL) ﬁgures. Owing to  such proﬁtability  several banks have entered the market  through certain workarounds – some invested in the venture  capitals that in turn invested on the ﬁntech companies. Such  deliverance of loans  however  needs to still be carefully  managed for the platforms to grow even further in the near  future.    The ﬁntech companies are still  however  concentrated  in the lending aspect. To date  renowned schemes like peer  topeer lending  crowdfunding  among others  are focused  on the credit aspect of ﬁnancial services. The legal issue  is one of the main drivers  as the regulations have been  pushing players away from shadow banking practices –  effectively hindering any chances of ﬁntech innovations on  the saving sectors despite the huge animosity by banks. It is  equally important to note  though  that saving is an equally  important playground for the players (Finke and Huston   2013; Gourinchas and Parker  2001).    In stimulating ﬁnancial technology innovation  all stake  holders in Indonesia have to be cooperative with each other.  Academicians and research institutions should educate peo  ple about digital economy literacy which can end up pro  ducing a talented workforce and broaden the ﬁntech com  munity. Furthermore  Bank Indonesia  the government  and  the authorities should provide supportive regulations to help    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    ﬁntech grow and protect consumers at the same time. As  an example  Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK) is responsible  for creating a protection mechanism for ﬁnancial customers.  On the other hand  investors should provide capital and view  ﬁntech as a viable instrument; startups should improve the  efﬁciency of existing ﬁnancial services business models;  and incubators  accelerators  and innovation laboratories  should provide tools for big business to engage and assist  young companies.    4. Trapped in the Middle    Juxtaposed with the other  bestpractice countries contexts   Indonesia’s progress is intriguing. Before bringing up the  debate on whether the country has been illprepared for the  ﬁntech platforms’ advancements  this study looks at the  cases of China and the United States for comparison. For  almost two decades  China  for instance  has been eagerly  developing their technology. One sector which has been  growing rapidly is Financial Technology. Since 2013  all  segments of ﬁnancial technology such as online peertopeer  lending  online wealth management  digital insurance  and  thirdparty payment have been facing a double or even triple  growth every year. As we can see from the ﬁgure below   the amount of loan balance for online peertopeer was  RMB31 Billion in January 2014 and increased to RMB856  Billion in January 2017. The thirdparty online and mobile  payments system was growing from RMB7.3 Trillion in  2013 to RMB54.5 Trillion in 2016.    China’s Financial Technology is now considered as one  of the world’s biggest ecosystem. It has 2 252 of ﬁnancial  credit platform at the end of June 2017. Several famous  ﬁnancial credit platform or companies are Ant Financial   WeBank  JD Finance  Baidu  Suning  Lufax  etc. By look  ing at the valuation  the companies who have the biggest  valuation which above USD10 Billion are Ant Financial  and Lufax. The second tiers which have a valuation be  tween USD5–10 Billion are JD Finance and WeBank. The  third tier which values USD1–5 Billion is renrendai.com   ppdai.com  quadian.com  rong360.com  etc.    The phenomenon is supported by four key drivers of  China’s digital transformation which are structural short  comings in the traditional ﬁnancial system  a high level of  digital connectivity in Chinese society  the high relative sig  niﬁcance of ecommerce  and governmental or regulatory  environment conducive to innovation. First  the structural  shortcomings in the traditional ﬁnancial system result from  the polarization of activity in a traditional bank. The tra  ditional banks are stateowner companies and have a low  development in the local capital market which cause limited  funding sources that can be given to the society. Party who  hurt the most from this situation is SMEs. Thus  there are    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 7/9    Figure 5. Financial Technology Ecosystem in Indonesia    Source  Compiled by authors    problems in granting credit  and other problem in traditional  banks. Second  China is also having a high level of digital  connectivity in its society. The country is already facing the  maturity of its digital infrastructure and having a large num  ber of global internet users. China has 25% of global users  which more than the combination of US  India  and Japan  internet users. It also has 11 times greater in payment trans  action than in the United States. Third  China is the largest  in the world in term of online sales. China also has sus  tained growth at around 25% annual rates. It represents the  relative importance of ecommerce within the country. The  last key is favorable government or regulatory environment.  Digitalization and promotion of innovative technology are  one of the pillars of ﬁveyear development plans by The  Chinese Government. The government attempts to speed up  the modernization of the ﬁnancial industry and boost up the  consumption through greater ﬁnancial inclusion.    How about the United States? The CAGR transactional  value of the US ﬁnancial technology (ﬁntech) market is  8.6 percent over the 2019–2024 forecast period. FinTech  is transforming the US ﬁnancial sector  including lending   investing  opting for loans  fund startups  and even buying  insurance. On average  two or more ﬁntech services are  used by one out of three digitally active consumers. The  U.S. accounts for 57 percent of the ﬁntech market as of  2018. Country consumers have identiﬁed the key beneﬁts  that ﬁntech innovation can bring  such as convenience  secu  rity  simplicity  transparency  and customization. The large  increase in digitalonly online banks and mobile phone pay  ments has resulted in increased ﬁntech money transfers and  payment services being adopted. Digital payment is the  leading market segment  with a total transaction value of  USD 880 billion as per 2018.    banking are leveraging regulatory tailwinds and referring  for charters and licenses due to respective regulators. Reg  ulators globally have been lowering the barriers for tech  startups to enter the market as a way to break up bank  ing monopolies and stimulate competition. The FCA was  among the earliest to pilot limited licenses like the “emoney  license” that enabled tech entrants like Revolut to launch a  remittances business through initially partnering with a char  tered bank  that decreased the company’s time to market.  Revolut obtained a charter in 2018 and has been applying  the same playbook to expand globally.    Over the past several decades there have been substan  tial improvements in ﬁnancial inclusion in the United States   narrowing somewhat the gaps in inclusion that exist along  racial  regional  and income lines. More recently  a range of  new technologies has emerged that has the promise to offer  new  safer and more affordable ﬁnancial services to a larger  swath of the population. Whereas banks and credit unions  have historically provided three categories of services to  households—saving  borrowing  and payment—new ﬁn  tech companies often focus on a single service  and this  development may help expand ﬁnancial inclusion.    The use of checks in the country has intriguingly been  more than modest; according to one estimate  households  with checking accounts pay an average of USD104 in total  fees per year (Stango and Zinman  2009). Another study  on WalletHub’s personal’s ﬁnance website estimates that  the typical consumer would pay an average of USD151 in  checking account fees annually (Comoreanu  2015). Fur  thermore  The St. Louis Fed reports a range of 2.5 to 3  percent for government beneﬁts to check and 4 to 5 percent  for a payroll check  while the FDIC reports a range of 1 to  4 percent for both.    Fintech startups which want to replace the old guard of    Comparing the two cases mentioned above  several key    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 8/9    differences in the Indonesian context are observable. First   the Chinese case has seen the country experiencing a mas  sive leap of technological progress and inclusion ﬁnancially.  The use (and efﬁciency) of Alipay and Wechat led to hege  monies by the two  rendering the conventional ﬁnancial  services more on the complementary side. The American  case is also showing vast ventures of the ﬁntech platforms   while the traditional ﬁnancial system is well established.  The Indonesian case  however  portrays a slightly different  landscape. The huge reception of ﬁntech platforms in the  country is primarily driven by the fact that conventional  ﬁnancial services have not been properly developed. This  may lead to signiﬁcant problems; as we will discuss in the  following sections.    5. Inclusion or Fragmentation?    The technological advancements of the ﬁnancial services  are expected initially to help the ﬁnancial inclusion of the  country. Easier usage and access are hoped to capture the  untapped potential amongst the underbanked and unbanked  citizens. However  we argue that a new possible inquiry may  arise from the current advancements – are we advancing too  rapidly? While the progress is ﬂourishing as we speak  the  question remains whether the advancements are addressing  the fundamental matters hindering the ﬁnancial inclusion  in the ﬁrst place. That is  whether the improvements are  tackling the main problems affecting the underbanked and  unbanked.    Take the Laku Pandai schemes  for instance. The plat  form was aimed to be the bankbusiness model able to  capture the underbanked and unbanked population’s un  tapped saving sector. However  the Laku Pandai scheme  was shown to be still not able to penetrate the rural com  munity. The problem of the rural area population on the  access to better ﬁnancial services is the lack of ability of  the rural population to provide the collateral required. Laku  Pandai suffers from the same problem – the scheme is also  yet to give the muchneeded noncollateral schemes for the  rural community. LPEM FEBUI (2018) also reported that  70 to 90 percent of the Laku Pandai agents are existing  account holders. Banks also have limitations in expanding  their agents  while Laku Pandai is also sometimes deemed  unproﬁtable for the banks. Thus  the expected impact on  ﬁnancial inclusion is still hindered.    The emoney has also been mostly capturing urban  households in terms of payment services. The rural house  holds are still yet to be using the emoney  due to the lack  of incentives to do so as the emoney platforms have been  gathering more users by making partnerships with public  services  transports  and merchants located mostly in the  urban areas. The regulations have also hindered the possible  ventures of telcobased payment methods to penetrate the  rural areas despite possessing the adequate network reach to  the rural population  nor the ability of the existing players  to appoint the muchneeded individual agents in the rural  areas.    In the lending sector  the more recently expanding ﬁn  tech companies are also still having limited access to rural  areas. The unbanked are still struggling to get access to the  saving services  not to mention the lending services. Those    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    needing the credits such as the farmers and the ﬁshers are  also yet to be entirely addressed by the ﬁntech companies.  There have been progressing  however  as new startups are  trying to help give lending access to such borrowers. We  argue that the fact that the abovementioned problems per  sist despite the advancements of the ﬁnancial institutions  indicates the possibility of a new ‘digital ﬁnancial divide’ in  the industry. The following Table 2 depicts the changes the  advancements made from the original landscape in Table 1.  As observable in Table 2 above  even the new advance  ments are still yet to completely help the rural underbanked  and unbanked population. The rapid and immense market  capitalization of the platforms  however  may lead to the ‘di  vide’. Those without access to the ﬁnancial services remain  without access while those with the ﬁnancial access further  embrace the access. The problem would be the rapid growth  of the platforms – making the discrepancy unprecedented.  Further studies are inevitably needed to observe the above  inquiry quantitatively  but this study aims to raise public  awareness of such a possibility.    6. Looking Ahead    Several potential tinkering may be done in addressing the  abovementioned problems. As we might notice in the above  discussions  the MSMEs and the rural areas remain un  tapped  especially the underbanked and unbanked. To so   however  radical changes are needed. More support on the  schemes addressing the yieldbased borrowers is apparent.  The cooperatives and rural banks may be improved with the  ﬁnancial technologies  while the ‘ruralized ﬁtness’ may be  needed to help the speciﬁc subset of the population get the  muchneeded ﬁnancial services.    Exploring the opportunities in telcobased services is  one of the viable options. Regulatory level changes are  then needed in addressing the issue. Success stories of such  schemes could be spotted across the regions  i.e.  the telco  based services ﬂourishing in India (PwC  2017). While  Laku Pandai  emoney  and ﬁntechs are still struggling to  penetrate the untapped rural areas  telcobased services with  the existing  highlevel of infrastructure may be of help.    The government must also build on the existing pro  grams. Improvements need to be made  such as better tar  geting  better network management  and even national ID  integration in the ﬁnancial services sector are the way to go  forward. The need for improvement is timely  as the possi  bility is only supported by technologies such as blockchain.  The lending sector may beneﬁt hugely from the national ID  integration  for instance  as better risk assessment may still  be conducted despite the same limited initial information  on the potential borrowers. Better tracking of the thirdparty  funds  for instance  may also be conducted by such integra  tion  among other beneﬁts.    Finally  fostering the ﬁnancial technology landscape  needs to be one of the focus going forward. With the exist  ing USD56 million investment  the ecommerce sector is  estimated to reach USD150 billion in 2020. Such potential  needs to be nurtured carefully. Better reach to SMEs remains  an important issue for the government  and with the right  push  the ecommerce and other technologybased ﬁnancial  platforms might hugely beneﬁt the industries. Ultimately     Financial Technology in Indonesia  A Fragmented Instrument for Financial Inclusion? — 9/9    Types    Table 2. The contemporary ﬁnancial services landscape in Indonesia  Insurance    Lending    Saving    Banked  Underbanked (Urban)  Underbanked (Rural/Remote)  Unbanked    Bank    Laku Pandai  Laku Pandai  Arisan  etc.    Source  LPEM FEB UI    Bank  Fintech    Pawnshops  loan sharks  Arisan  Pawnshops  loan sharks  Arisan    Insurance Company    –  –  –    Payment    Emoney  Emoney    Cash  Cash    Jasa Keuangan. Retrieved    pada Fintech  Kajian Perlindungan Konsumen  tor  https //konsumen.ojk.go.id/MinisiteDPLK/images/upload/  201807131451262.%20Fintech.pdf.    Sek  from OJK website     Otoritas    Jasa Keuangan.    (2018). Penyelenggara Fintech  Terdaftar di OJK per 25 Januari 2018. Retrieved from  https //www.ojk.go.id/id/beritadankegiatan/publikasi/pages/  penyelenggaraﬁntechterdaftardiojkper25januari2018.  aspx.  Otoritas    (2019). Penyelenggara Fintech  Terdaftar di OJK per 8 April 2019. Retrieved from  https //www.ojk.go.id/id/beritadankegiatan/publikasi/Pages/  PenyelenggaraFintechTerdaftardiOJKper8April2019.  aspx.    Jasa Keuangan.    PwC (2017). Fintech Trends Report – India 2017. https //www.    pwc.in/publications/2017/ﬁntechtrendsreportindia2017.  html.    We Are Social Ltd. (2017). Digital in 2017  Southeast Asia Re  gional Overview. Retrieved from We Are Social website  https //  wearesocial.com/specialreports/digitalsoutheastasia2017.  World Bank. (2010). Improving access to ﬁnancial services  in Indonesia  Executive summary (English). Washington   DC  World Bank. http //documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/  448491468257952510/Executivesummary.    World    Economic    Forum.  2016.    Networked  (2016).  http //reports.weforum.    Index    Readiness  org/globalinformationtechnologyreport2016/  networkedreadinessindex/.    making sure the advancements lead to better inclusion is  key  not the unprecedented divide.    References    APJII. (2016). Laporan Survei APJII 2016  Penetrasi dan  Indonesia. Retrieved from  https //apjii.or.id/content/read/39/264/    Perilaku Pengguna Internet  APJII  SurveiInternetAPJII2016.    website     APJII. (2017). Laporan Survei APJII 2017  Penetrasi dan  Indonesia. Retrieved from  website https //apjii.or.id/content/read/39/342/    Perilaku Pengguna Internet  APJII  HasilSurveiPenetrasidanPerilakuPenggunaInternet  Indonesia2017.  Indonesia.  in    Inclu  from OJK website     sion  https //www.ojk.go.id/id/beritadankegiatan/publikasi/  Documents/Pages/MateriOJKPROKSI2016/7.Digital%  20Financial%20Inclusion%20%20OJK.pdf.    Indonesia. Retrieved    Financial    (2014).    Digital    Bank    Bank Indonesia. (2017). Innovation & Fintech Development in  Retail Payment System in Indonesia. Retrieved from Bank  Indonesia website  https //www.bi.go.id/id/institute/kegiatan/  Flagship/Contents/Day4 Session3 Innovation%20and%  20Fintech%20Dev%20in%20Indonesia.pdf?Mobile=1.    DBS Bank Group Research (2019). Telecommunication (Indone  sia). Retrieved from DBS Bank website  https //www.dbs.com/  telecommunications indonesia.xml.    DemirgucKunt  A.  Klapper  L.  Singer  D.  Ansar  S.  & Hess  J.  (2018). The Global Findex Database 2017  Measuring Finan  cial Inclusion and the Fintech Revolution. The World Bank.    Finke  M. S.  & Huston  S. J. (2013). Time preference and the  importance of saving for retirement. Journal of Economic Be  havior & Organization  89  23–34.    Gourinchas  P. O.  & Parker  J. A. (2001). The empirical impor  tance of precautionary saving. American Economic Review   91(2)  406–412.    ICLG.    McKinsey Corporate Banking.    (2019).    Retrieved    Indonesia  Telecoms  Media  & Internet  2019.  from https //iclg.com/practiceareas/  telecomsmediaandinternetlawsandregulations/indonesia.  (2016a). Disruption and  Connection  Cracking the Myths of China Internet Fi  nance Innovation. Retrieved from McKinsey website   https //www.mckinsey.com/∼/media/mckinsey/industries/  ﬁnancial%20services/our%20insights/whats%20next%  20for%20chinas%20booming%20ﬁntech%20sector/  disruptionandconnectioncrackingthemythsofchina  internetﬁnanceinnovation.ashx.    McKinsey Corporate Banking. (2016b). Unlocking Indone  sia’s digital opportunity. Retrieved from McKinsey web  site  https //www.mckinsey.com/featuredinsights/asiapaciﬁc/  unlockingindonesiasdigitalopportunity.    Nuryakin  C.  Sastiono  P.  Maizar  F. A.  Amin  P.  Puspita  N.   Pramono  W.  & Tjen  C. (2018). Toward Higher Financial In  clusion Rate  Service Quality  Costs of Access  and Awareness.  LPEMFEBUI Working Paper  021. Institute for Economic and  Social Research.    Otoritas    Jasa Keuangan (2017). Perlindungan Konsumen    LPEMFEB UI Working Paper 036  May 2019    