here  in file  Article    Financializing authoritarian  capitalism  Chinese fintech and the  institutional foundations of  algorithmic governance    Julian Gruin  University of Amsterdam  Netherlands    Finance and Society  2019  EarlyView  121  © The Author(s)  doi  TBC    liberalization  deepening financial    Abstract  Digital credit scoring is driving a number of significant transformations in Chinese economy  and society  catalyzing financial  inclusion  and shifting  economic power beyond the previously statecontrolled commercial banking system. Yet the  significance of  financial technology is informed in turn by locally specific traditions of  governance and regulation. This article critically interrogates the rise of Chinese fintech   reconceptualizing it as a process of financialization that is embedded in a Chinese systems  oriented authoritarian governance tradition. On the basis of documentary sources  Chinese  language secondary literature  and fieldwork conducted from 201618   it argues that in  addition to disrupting existing practices of financial intermediation  the emergence of novel  digital credit scoring technologies is enabling new forms of algorithmic governance to be  exercised over  financialization  which in turn represents an important  component in the construction of China’s neostatist authoritarian capitalism. These findings  have broader  implications for how we understand the importance of new financial  technologies in an era of big data  contributing to contemporary debates in international  political economy  economic sociology  and Chinese studies.    the process of    Keywords  Authoritarian capitalism  China  digital credit scoring  technology  financialization  neostatism    Introduction  China’s financial system has experienced significant change since 2012. Although the large  stateowned commercial banks remain its beating heart  the rapid growth of digital financial    Corresponding author   Julian Gruin  Department of Political Science  University of Amsterdam  Postbus 15578  Amsterdam  Netherlands   1001NB. Email  j.y.gruin@uva.nl    2    Finance and Society    innovation since the 2013 Third Plenum of    services (DFS) beyond this stateowned sector has had a transformative impact upon both the  structure and the operations of the system  leading to China’s emergence as the world’s most  important market for financial technology (fintech) both in absolute size and as a source of  industry innovation (Claessens et al.  2018). Central political and broader social support for  the Chinese  the growth of such financial  Communist Party (CCP) has been closely connected to the promise of  ‘tech national  champions’ leading a new wave of economic growth  led by middleclass consumption and  greater efficiency in financial and other consumer services (Hu and Zheng  2016). It is a  market environment  that offers enormous first mover advantages  embedded in an  increasingly consumeroriented society that is highly receptive to the ‘disruption’ of the state  controlled banking system. China’s fintech heavyweights  including Ant Financial  JD Finance   and Du Xiaoman  alongside a raft of no less ambitious smaller dedicated online lending firms   such as Dianrong  Lufax  and Yirendai  are extending competitive and marketdriven digital  financial services to individuals and enterprises that previously found access to financial  capital difficult within the confines of a financially repressed traditional banking system.    The consequences of such transformations are not limited to the reform of China’s  financial system and economic growth model  but are of deep significance for the future of  Chinese politics and society. Just as the growth of systemically significant technology firms in  Western countries has given rise to contentious questions of their influence on democratic  processes  the significance of China’s new fintech firms extends to their potential impact on  the CCP’s ‘authoritarian resilience’ as it confronts challenges of deepening marketoriented  reforms and the rise of the Chinese middleclass consumer. This impact takes two potential  forms. First  such financial inclusion raises awareness and use of financial opportunities and  processes   of  logic  entrepreneurialism and consumption (Hall  2012; van der Zwan  2014). Secondly   it is  connected to the increasingly important role of publicprivate and statebusiness struggles  over the control of information in a context of big data capitalism (Hansen and Porter  2017;  Richards and King  2013). As such  the rise of online credit and investment services  challenges the CCP’s longentrenched control over financial intermediation and allocation of  capital at the mesoinstitutional level  as well as the deeper foundations of the social contract  that has characterized Chinese citizens’ trust in the CCP to provide opportunities for individual  economic betterment and collective prosperity.    investmentdriven    individualized    increasingly    fostering    This article analyzes these tensions  examining the role of Chinese DFS in the evolving  relationship between financial development and China’s authoritarian capitalism. It argues  that the rise of Chinese fintech represents more than a marketbased utilization of new  financial technologies in response to an entrenched statedominated banking system  but  rather constitutes an important institutional foundation in the ongoing construction of an  authoritarian capitalist system. These foundations comprise an interlinked array of big data  technologies  financial firms  and practices of digital credit scoring  cumulatively embedded in  a unique authoritarian political culture. The political economy of Chinese fintech extends  beyond the immediate dynamics of change within the financial system; it is a broader and  more complex process of financialization involving also the transformation of social and  economic governance structures.    transaction costs and increasing financial    I detail how the development of big datadriven credit scoring technologies for reducing  financial  inclusion have assumed a broader  significance in the context of new practices of ‘algorithmic governance’ (CampbellVerduyn   Goguen  and Porter  2017)  through which big data algorithms’ functions as market devices  are both supplemented by and transmuted into tools of political power. This algorithmic    an    Gruin    3    governance exhibits the Chinese political economy’s distinctive traits of deepening  marketization combined with strongly authoritarian state capacity – the manifestation of  China’s ‘networked authoritarianism’ in the financial realm (MacKinnon  2011). The analysis  therefore develops a critique of  liberalization’ and ‘financial  inclusion’ discourses of Chinese fintech that portray this process as a largely progressive  socioeconomic development and a demonstration of the economic potentials made possible  by technological change (Xie  Zou  and Liu  2016b). Such a conclusion overlooks how specific  technologies are always deeply embedded in social and political dynamics that transmute  their function and operation; in this case  embedded in what Creemers (2017a  85) describes  as the CCP’s broader project of placing “technology at the centre of an ambitious agenda for  comprehensive reform of social and economic governance”.    the intertwined ‘financial    These arguments contribute to two important contemporary debates in the political  economy of finance. First  the findings open up new conceptual avenues in the political  economy of financial reform and financialization in authoritarian states such as China. Existing  scholarship on the influence of financialization on democratic politics remains largely centered  upon AngloAmerican financial systems (Aitken  2007; Bruff  2014; Langley  2007). I show how  technological innovation – even when it reflects a form of ‘marketoriented transition’ – is  connected to the practice of digital ‘authoritarian resilience’ and represents a continuation of   rather a rupture with  longstanding principles and structures of Chinese governance. In so  doing I broaden the financialization debate beyond the world of AngloAmerican financial  capitalism and develop new opportunities for comparative analysis of  the political  consequences of  the article contributes to the deepening  rapprochement between economic sociology and political economy in recognizing the need to  contextualize the dynamics of market devices and technologies within the broader power  relations of capitalist growth and development (Christophers  2014). The embeddedness of  these financial  technologies within the Chinese political culture represents one set of  conditions in which such technologies can give rise to unintended political consequences  through a reengineering of their usage and a transmutation of their economic and political  potentials.    financialization. Secondly     The remainder of the article proceeds as follows.    In the next section I outline the  analytical value of adopting the concept of financialization for understanding the nature and  consequences of big datadriven financial technologies in China. The argument then proceeds  in two empirical steps. First  I trace how the rise of Chinese fintech is generating new sources  of financial value through a process of ‘inclusive financial  liberalization’ in response to a  financially repressed statedominated system. I then turn to the deeper political dimensions of  this process  examining how the rise of Chinese fintech is connected to the evolution of  algorithmic governance in China. This involves both the need for the CCP to exert control over  the financialization process  as well as its ambition to develop new forms of control through  financialization. The analysis draws upon a range of primary sources including government  policy documents  industry data  and 29 field interviews conducted in Beijing between October  2016 and September 2018. These interviews were obtained via a snowballing method to  locate interviewees who could provide a perspective on the development of Chinese fintech  from that of public governance (government officials)  private enterprise (practitioners from the  fintech industry) or policy research (think tank researchers). These are supported by recourse  to the Chineselanguage secondary literature. The concluding section discusses the  implications of the analysis and explores avenues for further research.    4    Finance and Society    Technology and financialization in authoritarian capitalism  Since the goal of constructing the ‘socialist market economy’ was first declared in 1993  a  statecontrolled banking sector has lain at the core of the CCP’s experimental approach to  reform and opening  involving efforts to harness the economic efficiencies of domestic market  competition  whilst guarding against  its potentially destabilizing effects. One implicit  assumption underlying much political economy analysis of China’s financial ‘liberalization’ has  therefore been that it transfers power over financial capital to actors – both individual and  corporate – beyond the partystate and thus forms one aspect of a broader marketoriented  developmental trajectory threatening the stability of CCP rule (see Ang  2018; Yang  2006;  Yang  2017). As history and the work of a number of other scholars has shown (Dickson  2008;  Gruin  2016; Tsai  2007)   the CCP has exhibited remarkable capacity to manage the  challenges raised by a rapidly evolving market economy.    The rise of fintech represents one more of these challenges (Wang  2017). Despite the  purported politicoeconomic advantages of increasing financial efficiency and broadening the  financial base  the rise of deep  broad  and integrated ‘fintech ecosystems’ also represents a  socioeconomic challenge to the longstanding and politically important methods of control  exercised by the CCP over financial markets and activities (Gruin  2016). Fintech thus raises  anew longstanding questions concerning the CCP’s capacity to have its cake and eat it too  by  both harnessing and constraining financial capital as an economic resource  and now  increasingly also digital financialization as a deeper and broader sociopolitical project. The  emergence of Chinese DFS therefore presents us with a new iteration of a familiar yet  counterintuitive situation  that one of the primary sources of legitimacyenhancing growth  constitutes simultaneously a potential threat to CCP authority.    Much of the existing scholarly literature on the emergence of Chinese DFS concentrates  on its related roles in accelerating financial liberalization and of financial inclusion as part of  China’s evolving developmental model (Chen  2016; Huang  Lei  and Shen  2016; Kshetri   2016). This focus has its roots in the political economy of financial reform and efforts to parse  the role of DFS in the growth of Chinese shadow banking  financial efficiency  and stability  (Huang  Shen  Wang  and Guo  2016; Li and Yi Tin  2016; Tsai  2015; 2016). This set of  debates stands apart from those of political scientists and China scholars who emphasize the  role of digital information and governance in the context of China’s networked authoritarianism  (MacKinnon  2011; Tsai  2017). This increasingly entails the construction of a technology  driven mode of ‘social management’ (Creemers  2017a; Hoffman  2017)  a process also  highlighted in the popular media  which tends to portray it – somewhat unfairly – as a direct  manifestation of an Orwellian dystopia (e.g. Botsman  2017). Nevertheless  such literature  does not locate these dynamics in the broader political economy of Chinese capitalism  in  which financial development and liberalization have potentially significant implications for the  viability and consequences of Chinese authoritarian governance.    Digital financial inclusion as financialization  This article bridges these debates by reframing the emergence of DFS and digital credit  scoring as a case of  financialization. Such an approach opens up valuable heuristic  opportunities for investigating the specific consequences of technological change in global  finance. Although financialization is a contested and multifaceted conceptual umbrella for a  variety of phenomena (Christophers  2015)   its core premise remains the increasing  institutions  and elites in the operation of the  importance of financial markets  motives     Gruin    5    economy and its governing institutions (Epstein  2005). Reviews of financialization scholarship  have identified three broad analytical levels to the concept  the macropolitical economic  the  mesoinstitutional  and the microcultural (van der Zwan  2014). Interested in the distributive  patterns of politicoeconomic power produced by financialization  economists and political  scientists have tended to emphasize the macro and mesoanalytical levels  focusing on the  changing patterns of interaction between financial and nonfinancial sectors and firms  and  the shifting relationships between political and financial institutions. By contrast  the micro  cultural delves deeper into how financialization “reshapes the way people think about their  lives and the world around them” (Davis and Kim  2015  212). Financial participation  underwrites discourses and ideologies of individual responsibility  risktaking  and calculative  practices of personal management (Aitken  2007; Martin  2002). These and other financial  subjectivities can become not just supplemental to but constitutive of entire social systems   aggregating into what Mehrling (2017) labels ‘financial society’.    The sociopolitical    logics and imperatives of    ‘financial society’ are most acutely  pronounced in AngloAmerican societies  whilst they are now increasingly evident in regions  whose financial development has unfolded alongside the emergence and diffusion of global  neoliberalism (Gonzalez  2015). China has longattempted to resist the strictures of globalized  finance  even as it sought to attract and enlist foreign capital in its modernization drive. Its  insulation from the direct consequences of the financial crises of the 1990s and 2000s  morphed into a more sophisticated set of strategies to both embrace and constrain the power  of global financial  integration (McNally and Gruin  2017). Whilst this strategy has proven  relatively successful in reaping the rewards of integration whilst guarding against attendant  macroeconomic risks  the influence of deeper  socioculturally rooted dimensions of financial  development represents a different form of financial globalization. Although closely tied to the  evolution of neoliberalism as a transnational project  financialization should not be considered  commensurate with its underlying logics and ideologies (Davis and Walsh  2017).    One implication of adopting such a perspective towards the microfoundations of  financialization is that trajectories of financialization will vary significantly by sociocultural  context. Although the geographic horizons of the financialization literature have broadened  significantly since their initial focus upon the AngloAmerican heartland of financial capitalism   explicitly comparative studies of Chinese financialization have remained aloof of the micro  level and societal changes potentially wrought  by the same token largely assuming the  universality of its drivers and causes (e.g. Karwowski and Stockhammer  2017). Meanwhile   singlecase studies of Chinese financialization have made significant progress in tracing the  patterns of financialization at multiple analytical levels. From a macroeconomic perspective   they have revealed the influence of financialization on economic growth and structure (Jia and  Winseck  2018; Wang  2015)  corporate governance (Modell and Yang  2018)  and financial  stability (Xia and Fuchs  2016). Wang (2018) has examined how China’s digital financial  inclusion diverges from traditional developmental models of  instead  inclusion into an increasingly  incorporating both discourses and practices of  financialized stateled capitalist model.    inclusion     financial    financial    At the microcultural    level  Chong (2018) has explored the everyday practices and  narratives through which Chinese enterprises are becoming financialized  emphasizing contact  with global professional service firms and ‘best practices’ in human resource management   corporate governance  and business ethics. Nevertheless  although such studies help us move  beyond an understanding of financialization as simply a new logic of capital accumulation   they tend not to focus on the analytical  linkages between the different levels at which  financialization can be perceived. In one exception  Dal Maso (2015  47) has characterized the    6    Finance and Society    growth of stock market participation since the early 1990s as a form of stateled “mass  financialization”. She links it to both an opening up of socioeconomic space for individuals  affected by the downsizing of the stateowned economy and associated welfare systems  as  well as a role in the rhetoric of the Chinese regime’s drive to buttress ideological support for  the new socialist market economy.    This article’s theoretical arguments are situated across these levels of analysis  seeking  to connect the evolving macropower relations of financialized capitalism with the micro  cultural mechanisms of how individual social relations are enrolled in its behavioural logics  and practices. From this perspective  financialization at all levels is a deeply social process.  Both its causes and consequences are socially rooted  with macroeconomic and institutional  definitions of  financialization serving as important and clear proxies for underlying  realignments of sociopolitical norms and cultural discourses. By the same token  micro  cultural mechanisms underpinning financialization generate agency for influencing macro  power relations; those able to modulate and redirect these logics are better equipped to  simultaneously constrain and harness the power of financial capitalism. A corollary to these  arguments is that the role of technology in financialization is mediated by a range of social and  cultural factors. Innovation in information and communications technology serves to facilitate  broader financial  inclusion by rendering online financial services cheaper  more readily  tailored to individual needs  and more widely available both temporally and geographically. Yet  when coupled with the algorithms underpinning big data technologies  social media and  messaging platforms also bring less sanguine consequences  serving as powerful  mechanisms for diffusing and reifying certain financial logics and practices at the expense of  others.    A sensitivity to the sociopolitical embeddedness of technological change and innovation  is of importance to ongoing debates surrounding digital financial  innovation in China and  beyond for several reasons. First  by embedding the analysis of market devices more deeply in  the sociopolitics of finance capitalism  financialization becomes a more useful conceptual tool  in the deepening conversation between economic sociology and political economy. The  increasingly significant role played by financial technologies in catalyzing  accelerating  and  modulating financialization processes raises broad issues of distribution  power  and  regulation that have too rarely been elucidated by ‘social studies of finance’ scholars  who  have focused more closely on the sociotechnical market devices underpinning financial  networks and exchanges (Coombs  2016; Erturk  Froud  Johal  Leaver  and Williams  2013).  Technological devices that calculate and model economic activities are crucial objects of study  for questions surrounding how markets are made possible (Muniesa  Millo  and Callon  2007).  Yet framing algorithms as economic assemblages that ‘perform’ markets in their image risks  foregrounding their abstract and disembedded qualities  and downplaying the interests of  political agents who both establish the structural parameters of this performativity and wield  devices as specific political tools and weapons. Understanding the broader significance of  fintech accordingly demands a nuanced analysis sensitive to the reciprocal influence between  technological innovations and (different forms of) capitalist political economy. Cast in such  light  financialization therefore goes beyond seeing the algorithms of big datadriven credit  scoring as a disruptive technology affecting market evolution in a linear or homogenous  fashion. Instead I show how algorithmic devices responsible for digital financial inclusion have  both been shaped by – and deployed within – the authoritarian capitalism under construction  by the CCP.    Secondly  the comparative capitalisms literature has long struggled to adequately deal  with China’s socialist market economy (Tsai  2013). Conceptualizing the rise of Chinese DFS    Gruin    7    as a process of sociopolitically embedded financialization brings debates on institutional  change in Chinese finance into more fruitful conversation with the political economy of Anglo  American financial systems that have hitherto dominated both the spread of financialized  practices and discourses  as well as scholarly efforts to study them in comparative context. In  this sense  rather than asking how fintech would affect Chinese politics and society  the  question is one of how the significance of fintech is affected by its emergence through a highly  complex and historically formed political tradition.    Systemic stability in the Chinese political tradition  The Chinese political tradition in which fintech is developing is characterized by its emphasis  upon a systemic stability underpinned by a holistic integration or harmony of its constituent  parts. For much of the twentieth century  Chinese society underwent the cyclical yet systematic  destruction of social trust  reaching a climax during the Cultural Revolution  when trust  between individuals and within communities was replaced by blind and exclusive faith in the  ideological fervour of Mao Zedong. In line with its postMao transition from a ‘revolutionary’ to  a ‘governing party’  the overarching objective of contemporary Chinese  governance remains the preservation and enhancement of the political authority of the CCP  alongside the growth and development of Chinese economy and society. Since 1978  the CCP  has endeavoured to preserve residual trust in its guarantee of social and economic progress in  an era of profound social and institutional transformation (Gruin  2019). This has proven  increasingly difficult as the complexity and connectedness of the market economy and society  has increased  giving rise to trust deficits across a range of social and economic sectors such  as consumer protection  environmental regulation  corruption  and fraud (Ohlberg  Ahmed  and  Lang  2017)  and the government’s recognition that upgraded governance systems – both in  ideological and technical terms – are integral for the CCP’s continued capacity to govern.    (Heath  2016)     The CCP’s ambition of constructing an authoritarian capitalist society that reconciles the  potentials afforded by a capitalist market economy with the strictures of an authoritarian  political regime is increasingly apparent (Ang  2018; Lieber  2013). As Hoffman (2017) has  argued  central to this governance model is a form of complex systemsthinking traceable to  the 1970s  which views technology as a mechanism for achieving Leninist social management.  In this systemsbased conceptualization of governance   the constituent elements are  evaluated with reference to their utility or function in achieving systemobjectives  social  harmony and economic development (Creemers  2018). This blurs divisions between public  and private  and the laying of responsibility for overall social development upon the citizenry   party members  commercial enterprises  social organizations  and government officials alike  (Thornton  2007). The outcome is a form of ‘cyberLeninism’ (Creemers  2017b) that has in  turn undergone substantial upgrading since the start of the Xi administration  a turning point  in the CCP’s approach to utilizing and exploiting technology to restructure the Party’s governing  framework.    These distinctive political traits have influenced the development of digital credit scoring  as an institutional foundation for an evolving authoritarian capitalist society  in which China’s  neostatist logic of retaining macrocontrol over financial market evolution can be contrasted  with the neoliberal tendency to vest epistemic authority in firms and corporate actors. The  following sections accordingly trace the rise of Chinese fintech as an interlinked set of  technologies  big databased financial  institutions  and practices like digital credit scoring   whose significance derives from their embeddedness in this distinctive political economy and    8    Finance and Society    the political tradition that underpins it. Contextualizing such technologies in the broader  patterns of political and social governance illustrates their importance beyond the economic  dimensions of financial inclusion and liberalization. Yet it also cautions against breathless  accounts of the role of fintech in the Orwellian rise of China’s surveillance state  for the  significance of digital credit scoring lies not only in the imposition of explicit surveillance  mechanisms. Rather  big datadriven financialization enables explicit incentives and implicit  sanctions to be woven more deeply into the fabric of everyday life as partandparcel of the  financialization of Chinese economy and society.    Inclusive financial liberalization? The rise of Chinese fintech  From its inception  Chinese DFS has generated broad expectations that it would play a  significant and positive role within China’s ‘new economy’ by furthering financial inclusion and  accelerating deeper structural economic rebalancing. The capacity of big datadriven credit  scoring  lending  and payments systems to facilitate this socioeconomic transition constitutes  one major dimension of its politicoeconomic significance  and provides an insight into the  rationale underpinning central government support for the sector’s growth and development.  The emergence of Chinese fintech is therefore at its core a story of the politicoeconomic  consequences of longstanding financial repression (Gruin  2013; Tsai  2015)   leading to  financing and efficiency gaps on both the lending and borrowing sides to small and medium  enterprises (SMEs) and lowincome households (Feyzioğlu  2009; Hsiao  Shen  and Bian   2015). Under the loose governance of the People’s Bank of China (PBOC)  the shadow banking  system that emerged in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis was engaged in a balancing act  between supporting economic growth through the existing investmentheavy developmental  model and accelerating financial liberalization and competition within the banking sector (Hsu   Li  and Xue  2014; Shen  2016; Tsai  2015).    Within this environment the growth of China’s DFS sector since 2013 has been both rapid  and sizable. Financial  innovation linked to ecommerce has utilized new technology  infrastructure and big data analytics to grant dramatically improved and faster access to  financial services for consumers and SMEs (Xiang  Zhang  Wang  and Huang  2017). After  several years of explosive expansion  including the rise and fall of a large P2P online lending  bubble  Chinese fintech is now entering a process of consolidation and maturation  with the  new ‘tech national champions’ spearheading growth. Ant Financial  China’s largest fintech  firm  alone raised USD 14 billion in 2018  compared with a North American total of USD 12.1  billion and European of USD 3.8 billion (CB Insights  2019). The firm has granted loans to  more than 4 million businesses and individuals with a total amount of RMB 700 billion in  direct lending (Cheng  2017). Although online lending remains equivalent to less than 5% of  domestic bank loans (01Caijing  2018)  this drastically understates the extent to which  Chinese citizens’ financial lives are moving online  and the rapid proliferation and uptake of  retail lending and investment services.    The rise of DFS connects closely to questions surrounding the role of the financial system  in China’s broader economic development. The promotion of fintech as a viable avenue for  marketoriented financial growth is closely tied to a broader array of efforts to address China’s  current macroeconomic conditions  contributing to three related economic policy goals   deepening China’s financial reforms  improving the market environment  and transforming the  overall national development model (Xiang et al.  2017; Xie  Zou  and Liu  2014). This is  echoed in much of the Western literature  which perceives the rise of fintech as heralding the  longawaited largescale liberalization of China’s financial sector (Huang et al.  2016; Ma     Gruin    9    2017). Premier Li Keqiang encapsulated the sentiment when stating  at the opening of  Tencent’s WeBank  that the growth of online banks “will lower costs for and deliver practical  benefits to small clients  while forcing traditional financial institutions to accelerate reforms”  (PwC  2015  7).    This financial liberalization narrative around the emergence of fintech dovetails with that  of financial inclusion. The 18th Central Committee meeting in November 2013 established an  ‘inclusive financial system’ as a key priority for financial reform  whilst in March 2014  Premier  Li Keqiang began to draw explicit connections between digital finance and financial inclusion  (Li  2014). A major push in this strategy to develop new growth drivers whilst preserving  financial stability came in the 2015 Internet Plus Plan  which sought to integrate the mobile  Internet  cloud computing  big data  and the Internet of Things with modern manufacturing  to  encourage the healthy development of ecommerce  industrial networks  and internet banking  (State Council of the PRC  2015b). This policy initiative places financial sector reform front and  centre  aiming to enhance China’s state capacities and market efficiencies in ecommerce by  promoting the contribution of digital financial services. Following quick on the heels of the  Internet Plus Plan  on 31 December 2015  the State Council elevated financial inclusion to the  status of a key pillar of national development and financial reform  stressing the central role of  big data analytics  cloud computing  and the integration of offline and online commerce in  enabling fintech firms to broaden access to financial services (State Council of the PRC   2016). An initial laissezfaire attitude toward the sector’s growth was followed by concerted  and coordinated set of regulatory measures by the PBOC and China Banking Regulatory  Commission (PBOC  2015b; CBRC. 2016)  which aimed to ensure that online financing  channels are structured to maximize capital flows to SMEs and individual entrepreneurs   rather than giving rise to regulatory arbitrage. This policy discourse of ‘inclusive financial  liberalization’ – along with the belief that DFS and online lending genuinely address a  financing gap for SMEs and foster greater financial inclusion as a whole – is reinforced by the  rise of the Chinese consumer as both a key driver of China’s economic growth model over the  next decades  as well as the ‘financial empowerment’ of the individual  in an increasingly  materialistic society (Xie et al.  2014; Huang et al.  2016). From this perspective  the policy  incentives for promoting online financial inclusion and innovation as a means of capitalizing  upon the Chinese consumer class as an economic force are clear (Li and Yi Tin  2016).    Such economic rationales for fintech development are supplemented by visions of a more  farreaching transformation of Chinese socioeconomic life  always with a positive spin. As Ant  Financial’s Chief Strategy Officer and respected academic economist Chen Long (2016  231)  describes it  “from Fintech to Finlife”. In this process  “real  life demand is the mother of  innovation … the reason why China’s fintech developed so fast is that its development is tightly  knitted to and supports consumption growth. As a result  technology  finance  and reallife  need form a virtuous circle”. Widespread societal support for fintech is closely connected to  enthusiasm for a future imaginary of liberalized financial markets and access to financial  services for individuals and entrepreneurs unencumbered by the strictures of state authority  (Bai  2016; Wang  2017). This underscores the receptivity of this rapidly burgeoning consumer  class to the reshaping of lifestyles and consumption patterns around the growth of e  commerce  fintech  and the big datadriven business practices that underpin them. It further  embeds the rise of fintech within a socially legitimated political discourse of economic  development and modernization.    As the sector began to gradually mature  the broader institutional foundation of Chinese  DFS began to take clearer shape. The core source of financial value in Chinese online lending  is the collection of information on consumer and business economic behaviour  predominantly    10    Finance and Society    oriented thus far around ecommerce (Tang  Zhang  and He  2014). Yet an early challenge lay  in developing usable credit scores  given the underdeveloped state of Chinese consumer  finance and the historical exclusion of SMEs from formal credit channels (CFI  2016). In early  2015  eight private technology firms were granted permission through a PBOC pilot program to  commence ‘preparatory work’ on establishing formal credit databases and scoring  methodologies. Although such pilot programs (for example  Ant Financial’s Zhima [aka  Sesame] Credit) have been conflated with broader systems of surveillance (see Botsman   2017)  there are nevertheless substantive links between the PBOC’s pilot program  and the  broader work of constructing a social credit system. Through Alibaba’s extensive reach into all  aspects of consumer’s online behaviour  Ant Financial has access to data on online purchases   utility bill payments  social network use  mobile phone records  and previous microfinance  history  and is constructing the world’s most comprehensive online financial services platform  (Caixin 2017)  whilst other tech giants Baidu  Tencent  and Jingdong are developing equally  comprehensive credit scoring databases (Caixin  2017; Millward  2016).    Online lending and the emergence of digital credit scoring is facilitating shifts in China’s  model of growth and development  enabling the expansion of new digital economies and  markets  whilst also accelerating a rupture with the financial repression that has long  characterized the role of finance and particularly the banking system in China’s economic  reform and development. MYbank  Ant Financial’s onlineonly private bank  provides a ‘310’  loan service (threeminute application  onesecond approval and grant  and zero manual  intervention) that is specifically geared towards micro and small entrepreneurs that have  grown up within the Alibaba ecommerce ecosystem (Cheng  2017). The use of big data  analytics in credit risk assessment has led to JD Finance having served over 100 000 SMEs  with supply chain finance solutions amounting to a total of RMB 250 billion  concentrating not  on a traditional loan model but instead using big data analytics to offer loan packages with  characteristics tailored to individual enterprises such as flexible amortization rates (Dong   2017). As a means of capitalizing upon the Chinese consumer class as an economic force  central to China’s broader structural economic rebalancing (Barton  Chen  and Jin  2013)  the  economic incentives for promoting online financial inclusion and innovation then are clear to  Chinese policymakers and are increasingly forming the basis for economic development plans  (Interview  13 September 2017; Li and Yi Tin 2016  175).    functions    liberalization’    DFSdriven ‘inclusive financial    thus as a catalyst of  financialization. As Gabor and Brooks (2016) have observed  the developmental potentials  afforded by fintech often obscure the ways in which it functions as an instrument of  financialization. Through a process of ‘constituting the unbanked’ (Aitken  2017)  financial  inclusion – and digital financial inclusion doubly so – involves making visible and extracting  value from previously excluded potential consumers or investors. In the Chinese case  this  process has implications for the locus and exercise of political power  as the capture by large  private financial firms not just of this economic value  but also of influence over consumer  financing behaviors  potentially challenges the longstanding control exercised by the state over  financial capital. Yet it also bolsters potentials for algorithmic governance by integrating  political priorities and strictures into the evolving fabric of  financial networks and  dependencies.    Fintech and the rise of algorithmic governance in China  The rise of DFS as a foundation for inclusive financial liberalization thus marks a subtle but  significant shift in the socioeconomic reach of the Chinese financial system  as well as the    Gruin    11    if    inclusion movement  “digital    underlying logics of newly formed financial networks and relationships. Accelerating China’s  financial inclusion in this way begins to shift the locus of financial authority from the traditional  network of commercial banks to those overseeing and exploiting the infrastructure of digital  finance itself  the databases and dataprocessing techniques at the heart of algorithmic credit  scoring. As Mader (2015  78) observed with reference to the implications of the broader  financial  fulfilled  would immensely  empower whoever controls the new monetary infrastructures.” Multiple sets of power relations  are affected and potentially reconfigured through digital financialization  as big data comes  increasingly to serve both as a tool and lever of algorithmic governance (CampbellVerduyn   Goguen  and Porter  2016). DFSled financialization thus presents novel challenges for the  CCP. Digital financial inclusion involves a potentially rapid diffusion of personal economic and  behavioural data; data that is useful not just for making financial decisions  but which can also  be used to influence wider social attitudes and incentives.    inclusion     financial    The holistic systemsthinking at the core of contemporary Chinese social governance is  reflected in the history of the CCP using the financial system as both an economic and a socio  political tool  particularly since reform and opening commenced in 1978 (Heilmann  2008;  Gruin  2019). One consequence is that economic growth is not pursued with firm ideological  distinctions between marketled economic innovation and stateguided economic upgrading   since either mode of change must remain within the purview and control of the party  (Heilmann  2005; McNally  2012; Gruin  2016). The close industrygovernment coordination in  the development of credit databases and dataprocessing techniques fits squarely within this  tradition  blurring the lines between public and private in harnessing the financial system as a  political as well as economic tool. Accordingly  as the next two subsections detail  the greater  politicoeconomic significance of Chinese DFS arises from its role not just as a means of  making visible and extracting economic value from the financially repressed Chinese  consumer  but in laying the technological foundations for a more wideranging mode of social  management and governance    Constraining digital financialization  Consolidation and control  One of the key objectives of the 2015 Guiding Proposal was to achieve industry consolidation  within the rapidly burgeoning online lending industry  and both broaden and deepen the  financial services offered by large companies (Interview  23 September 2016). This  consolidation also took on greater political significance  as the large tech firms could be  regulated in a more balanced manner  and were both amenable to and dependent on close  coordination with the government in order to preserve their political support and market  position (Feng 2017; Interview  4 October 2016). Whilst regulatory arbitrage beyond the banks  in a financially repressed and conservative regulatory environment had been one of the initial  catalysts for the emergence of digital finance  industry consolidation was now seen as both  reducing financial risk and increasing monitoring capacity (Interview  27 September 2016;  Interview  3 October 2016).    Industrygovernment coordination in digital credit scoring took more explicit form in  March 2016  when the National  Internet Finance Association (NIFA) was established in  Shanghai  with CreditEase as Executive Director  and Li Dongrong  former PBOC Deputy  Governor  as serving President. Firmly under the administrative purview of the PBOC  the NIFA  represents one element of the government’s efforts to exercise control over the evolution of  the country’s digital credit scoring infrastructure. One of its early projects was to establish the  launched in September 2016 in  new digital Credit Information Sharing Platform (CISP)     12    Finance and Society    conjunction with the PBOC. With 17 NIFA members including Ant Financial  JD Finance  and  Lufax present from its inception  this platform brought Chinese credit scoring genuinely into  the algorithmic era (Yang  2016). The platform offered promise of solving one of the biggest  problems of online lending platforms operating in the absence of traditional indepth credit  assessment procedures. Information asymmetry and incompleteness  as well as data sharing  across multiple platforms  have proven significant hurdles in the way of an accurate and  reliable credit scoring mechanism. CISP operates by way of a generalized information  dissemination system  so that customer and competitive information remain protected. The  synergy between the interests of the sector and the government are apparent in Li Dongrong’s  statement at the new platform’s launch     The credit information recorded through the platform can not only improve the internet finance industry  credit system  but also complement with the existing data in the national financial credit information  database and other industry credit databases  further consolidating the social credit system’s information  foundation. (NIFA  2016  n.p.)    The NIFA’s pursuit of this objective through the CISP has been bolstered by wider national  policy support. For example  Yiwu  one of China’s leading trade hubs for manufactured goods   was identified by the PBOC and National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) as one  of twelve ‘demonstration cities’ for integrating social credit systems with finance  foreign trade   and market supervision (PBOC and NDRC  2017; Xinhua  2018a). The NIFA has paid special  attention to the Yiwu plans  seeking ways to integrate the CISP with both national and local  government efforts to compile usable credit databases   including the development of  integrated cloud storage for financial information managed by a stateowned enterprise under  the control of the CBRC (STCN  2018).    These patterns of industrygovernment control  coordination  and cooperation are part of  what Creemers (2018  1) refers to as an “evolving practice of control”. The largest lending  platforms have been central to this push for regulation and the direction of its development.  Key members of the NIFA have spoken of the close working relationship between regulators  and industry players (CNTV  2016). The essence of the compact reached between the new  heavyweight DFS providers and the government is clear  from the industry’s perspective  their  willingness to confront existing banking monopolies grant them access to the front lines of the  Chinese consumer revolution  as long as they fully meet central government expectations for  the sharing  analysis  and utilization of underlying data (Interview  4 October 2016; Interview   15 September 2017). Just as with the establishment of its wider ecommerce empire  Ant  Financial has been closely aligned with the priorities of regulators in the development of its  financial business (Elliott and Qiao  2015). Ant Financial is now prepared to open its systems  and data to the central bank and other authorities’ realtime monitoring and supervision  (ECNS  2015)  and there remains little doubt that regulatory authorities are in control of the  overall agenda (Interview  29 September 2016; Interview  4 October 2016).    The government in turn has a clear interest in exercising control over such firms as Ant  Financial. As one source with knowledge of Ant’s growing scrutiny from regulatory authorities  tells it  “as a nonbank  nonstateowned institution in China  it’s not allowed to independently  grow too big to manage” (Zhang and Ruwitch  2018  n.p.). Party committees are not merely in  existence at the country’s largest tech firms  but have been effective in monitoring their  alignment with government priorities and policies (Interview  14 September 2017). Eight major  technology firms were initially granted pilot licenses to develop consumer credit scores   however  the PBOC opted later to merge the platforms into one unified credit scoring  organization. Under NIFA’s supervision  Baihang Credit Scoring is China’s first unified private    Gruin    13    platform to provide personal credit information services  and is intended to supplement the  existing staterun personal credit database (Xinhua  2018b). Financial inclusion is not only  about developing new domains from which to extract economic value  but also – and  potentially more importantly – about ensuring that the potentials offered through digital credit  scoring techniques remain under government control and management. As the next section  details  the development of China’s broader social credit system (SCS) provides an insight into  these potentials  illustrating how big datadriven financialization can also be leveraged to  enable novel forms of algorithmic governance to emerge and take shape.    Leveraging digital financialization  Governance potentials of algorithmic credit scoring  The preliminary plan for a comprehensive social credit system was announced in 2014 and  forms the blueprint for a broader plan of upgrading both social and economic supervision  through technological innovation (State Council of the PRC  2014). New financial technologies  are explicitly linked to this social engineering agenda  which seeks to create a ‘more civilized’  ‘quality’ (suzhi) of the  society via improvements in the natural  psychological  and social  citizenry (Barmé and Goldkorn  2013). This objective has taken on particular significance in  the context of the rise of the Chinese consumer  a process closely connected to questions of  sociopolitical change in reformera China and subject to careful ‘ideology management’ by the  CCP (Goodman  2014). The holistic systemsoriented focus of Chinese governance that blurs  the boundaries between public and private also complicates liberal notions of public and  private data. As Chen Gang (2016  12) opened with in an influential article  “in the present  era  data has become a fundamental national strategic resource”. In accordance with the  holistic systemsoriented focus of Chinese governance  constructing usable digital credit  databases is an integrated process unfolding along two tracks within the private and state  sectors. The construction by large ecommerce and tech platforms of large repositories of  financially valuable consumer data is being complemented by coordinated efforts among  financial regulatory bodies  such as the PBOC  and other central government agencies  including the NDRC and the State Internet Information Office  the latter of which is charged  with control over China’s internet censorship and propaganda regimes (see Table 1).    The core public repository of credit information is the Credit Reference Centre (CRC) of  the People’s Bank of China  which provides a high quality of existing historical credit data. The  CRC system was initially established in 2004 and will constitute an important foundation for  the broader SCS (PBOC  2015a). Amongst other existing certified financial institutions  the  Postal Savings Bank of China  with the largest branch network in the country  is supplying  financial data on otherwise difficulttoevaluate rural customers (CFI  2016). Additionally   uncertified credit institutions provide lending information  alongside data from public sector  entities handling credit  transactions such as phone bills and property tax payments   information from law enforcement agencies  and from the court system. All of this is being  further integrated into the National Credit Information Sharing Platform  which has been  operational since October 2015  and currently includes almost 400 datasets by more than 30  central ministries and governmental agencies (NDRC  2016). These two data collection and  processing infrastructures – one borne directly out of consumers’ online activities  the other  founded upon public records and existing databases – are expected to merge together over  the next years  even if the intention is not to produce one single ‘credit score’ as a result  but  to enable data to be utilized for a variety of different purposes (Interview  2 October 2016;  Interview  30 September 2016;  Interview  15 September  2017). This mutability between private sector initiatives to support commercial business and    Interview  29 September 2016;    14    Finance and Society    the government’s objective to implement broader systems of social governance is a natural  reflection of China’s distinctive political tradition.    Table 1. Illustrative data sources for private and public financial credit scoring mechanisms.    Source  Ant Financial  October 2016 (updated September 2017); PBOC.    The initial plan for the social credit system did not refer explicitly to the use of algorithmic  big data analytics. Yet to assume that this means data collected purely for the purposes of  financial risk management will never play a role in the broader matrix of social governance  mechanisms would appear naïve. As one industry professional observed  the 2014 SCS plan  extended through to 2020  but “that is not the end of the process. There will obviously be a  new plan after that.” (Interview  15 September 2017). In this light  it is less surprising then that  the more recent 2017 State Council notice on the 13th FiveYear Plan for Market Supervision  refers specifically to establishing and ‘perfecting’ new regulatory mechanisms involving “credit  supervision  big data supervision  multidimensional collective governance” and so on (State  Council of the PRC  2017  n.p.). The same document also places the role of technology front  and centre in undergirding this system of market supervision that expands the concept of    Gruin    15    credit ratings far beyond financial metrics  to include social  political  and environmental  factors both in terms of data inputs and rating outputs (State Council of the PRC  2017).  Likewise  in the implementation of the Internet Plus Plan  the State Council has underscored  the importance of big data analytic techniques to enhance ‘social governance ability’ at all  levels of government  as well as the expectation of collaboration between government and  tech firms in establishing the necessary credit information sharing platforms (State Council of  the PRC  2015a). Unsurprisingly  the substantive details of the algorithms that will produce  these evaluations are as yet and will likely remain unknown. But the intent is clear  a constant  monitoring presence of automatically generated and updated credit rating scores  which will –  in the terms of official discourse – constitute ‘selfdisciplining enforcement’ mechanisms  at  the level of both the individual citizen and the corporate entity (State Council of the PRC   2017).    Both the empirical data sources as well as the algorithmic scoring techniques being  developed across the range of DFS players are thus integral elements in transferring the  practice and methodologies of financial credit rating to a broader range of quantifiable social  and political benchmarks (Yan and Li  2014  291; Xie  Zou  and Liu  2016b). Although there is  little public acknowledgement of this process  the extent to which the laws and regulations  defining the limits of data sharing between tech firms and the government reflect Beijing’s  political priorities is widely known amongst officials and industry alike (Interview  13  September 2017). One influential former financial policymaker describes the goal in these  terms     Financial services will be available to all  and everyone will enjoy the benefits. In this way  Internet finance is  more democratic than a finance controlled by professional elites … Individuals (or institutions) have many  stakeholders  who all have some information about their wealth  employment status  personality  and so on.  If all stakeholders’ information is released and pooled on social networks  and inaccurate information is  disputed or filtered through social networks and search engines  we will get a reliable picture of their  creditworthiness. Social networks also enable the accumulation of ‘social capital’ among people  with  which costs of financial activities will drop considerably and opportunistic behaviors will be constrained.  (Xie  Zou  and Liu  2016a)    Such visions underscore just how fine a line there is between the use of credit scoring  algorithms for evaluating financial creditworthiness on the one hand and sociopolitical  trustworthiness on the other. Those technologies underpinning financial data collection and  processing become increasingly mutable instruments of financial governance and social  management  helping ensure that the financialization of Chinese society buttresses  rather  than undermines  the existing power structures of CCPled authoritarian capitalism    Conclusion  The core argument advanced in this article has been that the rise of Chinese DFS constitutes  a digital financialization process embedding technological  innovation within the distinctive  political economy of Chinese authoritarian capitalism. Its impact arises from the interaction of  four factors  the emergence of big data credit scoring technologies  an economic growth model  demanding a more open and efficient financial system  a retail market environment primed for  the uptake of digital financial services  and an authoritarian and ideologically robust state  apparatus seeking to maximize new opportunities for socioeconomic development whilst  minimizing related threats to systemic stability and authoritarian control. Although its full  contours are only beginning to emerge  digital financialization is generating new tools and    16    Finance and Society    opportunities for the CCP to monitor both individual and corporate actors  to sanction them if  their behaviours are ‘nonapproved’  and to slowly reshape social agency itself into an exercise  in satisfying algorithmic templates of economic and social behavior.    Analyzing the rise of Chinese fintech in this way has wider implications for our  understanding and study of how technological shifts at the heart of financial market practices  and structures can reshape the politics of money and finance. Reframing big datadriven  financial liberalization as a form of digital financialization embedded in the broader politics of  capitalist development illustrates the effect of distinctive political traditions and economic  structures on the nature and consequences of institutional change. The construction of  China’s digital credit scoring infrastructure is one manifestation of the myriad potential ways in  which advances in financial  technology open up new opportunities for socioeconomic  ‘development’ as well as the exercise of political authority.    This study’s findings thus raise questions deserving further    research into how  financialization processes can be analyzed in comparative context. First  it calls for further  theorization of different factors that influence financialization in different (trans)national  contexts and the accompanying diffusion of technologies and practices. The developments  analyzed here are just one historical  instantiation of how technology can interact with a  distinctive political tradition so as to present a novel governance strategy for addressing a  longstanding politicoeconomic problem.  In other contexts  different sociocultural factors  might be equally important  for example  the role of Islamic philosophy and ideology (see  Rethel  2011) as both a source of normative principles guiding the application of big data  technologies to financial  institutionalized power  intermediation  as well as an array of  structures shaping patterns of politicoeconomic power and authority.    Secondly  this issue of the nature of ‘the digital’ and the crucial role played by technology  in contemporary financial inclusion and financialization speaks to deeper transformations in  governance across liberal and illiberal societies alike  as big data technologies are increasingly  deployed to monitor  predict  and actively generate the behaviours of technology users. Such  practices of algorithmic governance are agnostic to the division between the public sphere of  government and the private sphere of enterprise  calling into question the ongoing salience of  conceptual dichotomies between ‘democratic’ and ‘authoritarian’ capitalism. This distinction  becomes increasingly ambiguous when it comes to how the ownership  valorization  and  exploitation of personal data can function as mechanisms of algorithmic governance. Chinese  neostatism and AngloAmerican neoliberalism can each rely upon similar  tools and  technologies of socioeconomic surveillance and biopolitics  despite the differing balance of  power between juridical sovereign authority (neostatism) and marketsituated capital  (neoliberalism). The Chinese case thus provides one instructive example of the role that big  data and digital credit scoring can play in consolidating nonliberal forms of technology  enabled financial capitalism. At a time when calls are heard for the Western world’s largest  media technology firms to be regulated as utilities  we must be alert and alive to the potentials  of fintechled financialization to likewise consolidate and deepen the authoritarian cultural  logics and institutional structures of neoliberal capitalism.    Gruin    17    References  01Caijing (2018) 2018 Report on the Development of China’s Online Lending Service Industry    [Chinese language]. Beijing  01Caijing.    Aitken  R. (2007) Performing Capital  Toward a Cultural Economy of Popular and Global Finance.    Basingstoke  Palgrave.    Aitken  R. (2017) ‘All data is credit data’  Constituting the unbanked. Competition & Change  21(4)     274300.    Ang  Y.Y. (2018) Autocracy with Chinese characteristics. Foreign Affairs  May/June  3948.  Bai  C. (2016) The origin and role of inclusive finance in China. China Development Gateway. Available    at  <http //en.chinagate.cn/201606/06/content_38610696.htm>. Accessed 21 September  2018.    Barmé  G. and Goldkorn  J. (eds.) (2013) Civilizing China  China Story Yearbook 2013. Canberra  ANU    Press.    Barton  D.  Chen  Y. and Jin  A. (2013) Mapping China’s middle class. McKinsey Quarterly  3  5460.  Botsman  R. (2017) Big data meets big brother as China moves to rate its citizens. WIRED UK. Available    at  <https //www.wired.co.uk/article/chinesegovernmentsocialcreditscoreprivacyinvasion>.  Accessed 27 October 2017.    Bruff  I. (2014) The rise of authoritarian neoliberalism. Rethinking Marxism  26(1)  11329.  Caixin (2016) Within P2P regulation ‘dual responsibility’ system the CBRC assumes responsibility for    third party deposits [Chinese language]. Caixin  24 August 2016.    Caixin (2017) Ant Financial’s credit scoring ambitions crawl ahead with two new deals. Caixin Global     10 May 2017.    CampbellVerduyn  M.  Goguen  M. and Porter  T. (2017) Big data and algorithmic governance  The case    of financial practices. New Political Economy  22(2)  21936.    CB Insights (2019) 2019 Fintech Trends to Watch. New York  CB Insights.  CBRC (2006) Guidelines on Commercial Banks’ Financial Innovation [Chinese language]. Beijing  China    Banking Regulatory Commission.    CBRC (2016) Interim Law on the Management of Internet Lending Information Intermediaries [Chinese    language]. Beijing  China Banking Regulatory Commission.    CFI (2016) How new credit scores might help bridge China’s credit gap. Center for Financial Inclusion.    Available at  <https //www.centerforfinancialinclusion.org/hownewcreditscoresmighthelp  bridgechinascreditgap>. Accessed 17 October 2018.    Chen  G. (2016) Use big data thinking and methods to enhance the government’s governing capacity    [Chinese language]. Qiushi  12  1518.    Chen  L. (2016) From fintech to finlife  The case of fintech development in China. China Economic    Journal  9(3)  22539.    Cheng  O. (2018) Inclusive Growth and ECommerce  China’s Experience. Hangzhou  AliResearch.  Chong  K. (2018) Best Practice  Management Consulting and the Ethics of Financialization in China.    Durham  NC  Duke University Press.    Christophers  B. (2014) From Marx to market and back again  Performing the economy. Geoforum  57    (November)  1220.    Christophers  B. (2015) The limits to financialization. Dialogues in Human Geography  5(2)  183200.  Claessens  S.  Frost  J.  Turner  G.  and Feng  Z. (2018) Fintech credit markets around the world  Size     drivers and policy issues. BIS Quarterly Review  September  2949.  CNTV (2016) PBOC sets up advisory body. CNTV  26 March. Available at     <http //english.cntv.cn/2016/03/26/VIDEKOJJSIzIFLaMsCd9gkQE160326.shtml>. Accessed 13  September 2016.    18    Finance and Society    Coombs  N. (2016) What is an algorithm? Financial regulation in the era of high frequency trading.    Economy and Society  45(2)  278302.    Creemers  R. (2017a) Cyber China  Upgrading propaganda  public opinion work and social    management for the twentyfirst century. Journal of Contemporary China  26(103)  85100.    Creemers  R. (2017b) CyberLeninism  The political culture of the Chinese internet. In  Price  M. and    Stremlau  N. (eds.) Speech and Society in Turbulent Times. Cambridge  Cambridge University  Press  25573.    Creemers  R. (2018) China’s social credit system  An evolving practice of control. SSRN Papers     3175792. Rochester  Social Science Research Network.    Dal Maso  G. (2015) The financialization rush  Responding to precarious labor and social security by    investing in the Chinese stock market. South Atlantic Quarterly  114(1)  4764.    Davis  A. and Walsh  C. (2017) Distinguishing financialization from neoliberalism. Theory  Culture &    Society  34(56)  2751.    Davis  G.F. and Kim  S. (2015) Financialization of the economy. Annual Review of Sociology  41(1)  203    21.    Dickson  B. (2008) Wealth into Power  The Communist Party’s Embrace of China’s Private Sector.    Cambridge  Cambridge University Press.    Dong  T. (2017) Quick take  JD.com finance unit launches microlending in Chongqing. Caixing Global     Available at  <https //www.caixinglobal.com/20171019/101158477.html>. Accessed 20 October  2017.    ECNS (2015) China to issue guidelines for web finance companies. Available at     <http //www.ecns.cn/business/2015/0305/156739.shtml>. Accessed 5 March 2018.  Elliott  D. and Yu  Q. (2015) Reforming Shadow Banking in China. Washington  DC  Brookings    Institution.    Epstein  G.A. (2005) Financialization and the World Economy. Cheltenham  Edward Elgar.  Erturk  I.  Froud  J.  Johal  S.  Leaver  A. and Williams  K. (2013) (How) do devices matter in finance?    Journal of Cultural Economy  6(3)  33652.    Feng  E. (2017) Chinese tech groups display closer ties with Communist Party. Financial Times  10    October.    Feyzioğlu  T. (2009) Does good financial performance mean good financial intermediation in China?    IMF Working Papers  09/170. Washington  DC  International Monetary Fund.    Gabor  D. and Brooks  S. (2016) The digital revolution in financial inclusion  International development    in the fintech era. New Political Economy  22(4)  42336.    Gonzalez  F. (2015) Where are the consumers? ‘Real households’ and the financialization of    consumption. Cultural Studies  29(56)  781806.    Goodman  D.S.G. (2014) Middle class China  Dreams and aspirations. Journal of Chinese Political    Science  19(1)  4967.    Gruin  J. (2013) Asset or liability? The role of the financial system in the political economy of China’s    rebalancing. Journal of Current Chinese Affairs  42(4)  73104.    Gruin  J. (2016). The social order of Chinese capitalism  Socioeconomic uncertainty  Communist Party    rule and economic development  19902000. Economy and Society  45(1)  2450.    Gruin  J. (2019) Communists Constructing Capitalism  State  Market  and the Party In China’s Financial    Reform. Manchester  Manchester University Press.    Hall  S. (2012). Geographies of money and finance II  Financialization and financial subjects. Progress    in Human Geography  36(3)  40311.    Hansen  H.K.  and Porter  T. (2017) What do big data do in global governance? Global Governance     23(1)  3142.    Gruin    19    Heath  T.R. (2016). China’s New Governing Party Paradigm  Political Renewal and the Pursuit of    National Rejuvenation. Surrey  Ashgate.    Heilmann  S. (2005) Regulatory innovation by Leninist means  Community party supervision in China’s    financial industry. The China Quarterly  181 (March)  121.    Heilmann  S. (2008) Policy experimentation in China’s economic rise. Studies in Comparative    International Development  43(1)  126.    Hoffman  S. (2017) Programming China  The Communist Party’s Autonomic Approach to Managing    State Security. Berlin  Mercator Institute for Chinese Studies.    Hornby  L. (2017) China changes tack on ‘social credit’ scheme plan. Financial Times  4 July.  Hsiao  C.  Shen  Y. and Bian  W. (2015) Evaluating the effectiveness of China’s financial reform  The    efficiency of China’s domestic banks. China Economic Review  35  7082.    Hsu  S.  Li  J. and Xue  Y. (2014). Shadow banking and systemic risk in China. Political Economy    Research Institute Working Paper 349. Amherst  Political Economy Research Institute.    Hu  B. and Zheng  L. (2016). China’s shadow banking system – Scale  risks and regulation  Research    from the perspective of nontraditional credit financing. In  Hu  B.  Zheng  L. and Yin  Z. (eds.)  Development of China’s Financial Supervision and Regulation. Abingdon  Palgrave MacMillan  1  29.    Huang  Y.  Shen  Y.  Wang  J. and Guo  F. (2016) Can the internet revolutionise finance in China? In     Song  L.  Garnaut  R.  Fang  C.  and Johnston  L. (eds.) China’s New Sources of Economic Growth   Reform  Resources  and Climate Change. Canberra  ANU Press  11538.    Huang  Z.  Lei  Y. and Shen  S. (2016) China’s personal credit reporting system in the Internet finance    era  Challenges and opportunities. China Economic Journal  9(3)  116.    Jia  L  and Winseck  D. (2018) The political economy of Chinese internet companies  Financialization     concentration  and capitalization. International Communication Gazette  80(1)  3059.    Karwowski  E.  and Stockhammer  E. (2017) Financialisation in emerging economies  A systematic    overview and comparison with AngloSaxon economies. Economic and Political Studies  5(1)  60  86.    Kshetri  N. (2016) Big data’s role in expanding access to financial services in China. International    Journal of Information Management  36(3)  297308.    Langley  P. (2007) Uncertain subjects of AngloAmerican financialization. Cultural Critique  65(1)  67    91.    Li  K. (2014) 2014 Government Work Report [Chinese language]. Beijing  State Council of the PRC.  Li  S.Y. and Tin  C.Y. (2016) Impact of technology on China’s financial system. In  Sheng  A. and Soon   N.C. (eds.) Shadow Banking in China  An Opportunity for Financial Reform. Hoboken  NJ  Wiley   17194.    Lieber  A. (2013). The Chinese ideology  Reconciling the politics with the economics of contemporary    reform. Journal of Chinese Political Science  18(4)  33553.    Ma  W. (2017) China’s Mobile Economy  Opportunities in the Largest and Fastest Information    Consumption Boom. Sussex  Wiley.    MacKinnon  R. (2011) China’s ‘networked authoritarianism’. Journal of Democracy  22(2)  3246.  Mader  P. (2015) The Political Economy of Microfinance  Financializing Poverty. London  Palgrave    Macmillan.    Martin  R. (2002) Financialization of Daily Life. Philadelphia  PA  Temple University Press.  McNally  C. (2012) Sinocapitalism  China’s reemergence and the international political economy. World    Politics  64  74176.    Mehrling  P. (2017) Financialization and its discontents. Finance and Society  3(1)  110.  MGI (2017) China’s Digital Economy  A Leading Global Force. Shanghai  McKinsey Global Institute.    20    Finance and Society    Millward  S. (2016) China lacks a USstyle credit scoring system. But big data and AI are filling the gap.  Tech in Asia  18 July. Available at  <https //www.techinasia.com/baiduchinacreditscoresystem  aibigdata>. Accessed 22 September 2016.    Modell  S. and Yang  C.L. (2018) Financialisation as a strategic action field  An historically informed  field study of governance reforms in Chinese stateowned enterprises. Critical Perspectives on  Accounting  54 (July)  4159.    Muniesa  F.  Millo  Y. and Callon  M. (2007) An introduction to market devices. The Sociological Review     55(2)  112.    NDRC (2016) Credit Information Catalogue of the National Credit Information Sharing Plaform    (Interdepartmental Joint Membership Conference Unit 2016 Edition [Chinese language]. Beijing   National Development and Reform Commission.    NIFA (2016) Internet finance industry credit information sharing platform launched. Available at   <http //www.nifa.org.cn/nifaen/2955875/2955895/2964303/index.html>. Accessed 17  September 2018.    Ohlberg  M.  Ahmed  S. and Lang  B. (2017) Central Planning  Local Experiments  The Complex    Implementation of China’s Social Credit System. Berlin  Mercator Institute for Chinese Studies.    PBOC (2015a) Report on the Construction and Operation of the Credit System (20042014) [Chinese    language]. Beijing  People’s Bank of China.    PBOC (2015b) Guiding Proposal on Promoting the Healthy Development of Internet Finance [Chinese    language]. Beijing  People’s Bank of China.    PBOC and NDRC (2017) Notice Concerning Issuing the Name List of the First Group of Social Credit    System Construction Model Cities [Chinese language]. Beijing  People’s Bank of China and  National Development and Reform Commission.    PwC (2015) Banking and Finance in China  The Outlook for 2015. Hong Kong  Price Waterhouse    Coopers.    Rethel  L. (2011). Whose legitimacy? Islamic finance and the global financial order. Review of    International Political Economy  18(1)  7598.    Richards  N.M. and King  J.H. (2013). Three paradoxes of big data. Stanford Law Review Online  66  41    46.    Shen  W. (2016) Shadow Banking in China  Risk  Regulation and Policy. Cheltenham  Edward Elgar.  State Council of the PRC (2014) Notice of the State Council on the Planning Outline for the    Construction of a Social Credit System [Chinese language]. Beijing  State Council of the People’s  Republic of China.    State Council of the PRC (2015a) Several Proposals of the State Council on Progressing the Healthy    Development of Capital Markets [Chinese language]. Beijing  State Council of the People’s  Republic of China.    State Council of the PRC (2015b) State Council Guiding Opinions Concerning Vigorously Moving    Forward the ‘Internet Plus’ Plan [Chinese language]. Beijing  State Council of the People’s Republic  of China.    State Council of the PRC (2016) Plan for Advancing Financial Inclusion Development (20162020)    [Chinese language]. Beijing  State Council of the People’s Republic of China.    State Council of the PRC (2017) Notice of the State Council on the 13th FiveYear Plan for Market    Supervision [Chinese language]. Beijing  State Council of the People’s Republic of China.  STCN (2018) The war on the cloud has started! Regulators lead 16 financial institutions in the    construction of a unified financial cloud [Chinese language]. Securities Times  8 March.    Tang  T.  Zhang  Y. and He  D. (2014) The Rise of Digital Finance in China  New Drivers  New Game     New Strategy. Hong Kong  Boston Consulting Group.    Gruin    21    Thornton  P. (2007) Disciplining the State  Virtue  Violence  and StateMaking in Modern China.    Cambridge  MA  Harvard University Press.    Tsai  K. (2007) Capitalism Without Democracy  The Private Sector in Contemporary China. Ithaca  NY     Cornell University Press.    Tsai  K. (2013) China’s political economy and political science. Perspectives on Politics  11(3)  86071.  Tsai  K. (2015) The political economy of state capitalism and shadow banking in China. Issues &    Studies  51(1)  5597.    Tsai  K. (2017) When shadow banking can be productive  Financing small and medium enterprises in    China. Journal of Development Studies  53(12)  200528.    Tsai  W.H. (2016) How ‘networked authoritarianism’ was operationalized in China  Methods and    procedures of public opinion control. Journal of Contemporary China  25(101)  73144.    Van der Zwan  N. (2014) Making sense of financialization. SocioEconomic Review  12(1)  99129.  Wang  J. (2017) ‘Stirfrying’ internet finance  Financialization and the institutional role of financial news    in China. International Journal of Communication  11  22.    Wang  J. (2018) Inclusion or expulsion  Digital technologies and the new power relations in China's    ‘Internet finance’. Communication and the Public  3(1)  3445.    Wang  Y. (2015) The rise of the ‘shareholding state’  Financialization of economic management in    China. SocioEconomic Review  13(3)  60325.    Xia  B. and Fuchs  C. (2016) The financialisation of digital capitalism in China. Westminster Advanced    Studies  4  132.    Xiang  X.  Zhang  L.  Wang  Y. and Huang  C.X. (2017) China’s path to fintech development. European    Economy  2  14359.    Xie  P.  Zou  C.W. and Liu  H. (2014) Internet Finance Handbook [Chinese language]. Beijing  Renmin    University of China Press.    Xie  P. (2016a) Internet Finance in China. Abingdon  Routledge.  Xie  P. (2016b) The fundamentals of internet finance and its policy implications in China. China    Economic Journal  9(3)  24052.    Xinhua (2018a) Social Credit System Construction Demonstration Cities  Introduction of Typical  Experience No. 11  Yiwu Municipality [Chinese language]. Xinhua  6 February. Available at   <http //credit.xinhua08.com/a/20180214/1748625.shtml>. Accessed 16 May 2018.    Xinhua (2018b) China approves personal credit platform for online lending. Xinhua  22 February.    Available at  <http //www.xinhuanet.com/english/201802/22/c_136991905.htm>. Accessed 16  May 2018.    Yan  Q. and Li  J.H. (2014) Research on China’s Shadow Banking Regulation [Chinese language].    Beijing  Renmin University of China Publishing House.    Yang  D. (2006) Economic transformation and its political discontents in China  Authoritarianism     unequal growth  and the dilemmas of political development. Annual Review of Political Science  9   14364.    Yang  D. (2017) China’s troubled quest for order  Leadership  organization and the contradictions of the    stability maintenance regime. Journal of Contemporary China  26(103)  3553.    Yang  F. (2016) China’s National Internet Finance (fintech) Association finally launches credit scoring  system. Kapron Asia  14 September. Available at  <https //www.kapronasia.com/chinabanking  researchcategory/chinasnationalinternetfinancefintechassociationfinallylaunchescredit  scoringsystem.html>. Accessed September 27  2016.    Zhang  S. and Ruwitch  J. (2018) Exclusive  Ant Financial shifts focus from finance to tech. Reuters  5    June.    