here  in file  C H I N A    X I N G N A N   WA N G    R U I   H U A N G    Guangdong University of Finance    Guangdong University of Finance    FinTech in China’s Capital Market    Introduction    Why FinTech is so Hot   in China    China has been a world leader in Fin    Tech.  In  some  financial  technology   industries  such as digital payments    China is in the forefront of the world. In   the area of financial products and services    FinTech is reducing costs  improving ser  vice quality  and promoting market liquid  ity  and  efficiency.  Until  recently   FinTech   has  been  focused  on  payments   peerto  peer (P2P) lending and equity crowdfund  ing. However  the evolution of FinTech in   capital  markets  has  accelerated;  techno  logical  advances  such  as  artificial  intelli  gence  (AI)   robotic  process  automation    blockchain  and  cloud  technology  have   appeared.    Alibaba and Tencent); hot investment; ex  plosive growth in ecommerce and digital   payment  systems;  soaring  financial  ser  vices  demand;  and  regulatory  pressure.   Unlike in the U.S. or Europe  in China dis  ruption by FinTech firms is not occurring   at  the  periphery  of  the  financial  sector.   It  has  gone  past  the  infection  point   with   technological innovation reshaping the fi  nancial landscape.    The rise of the BAT    China’s FinTech sector is fueled by several   factors such as the rise of the BAT (Baidu      Baidu   Alibaba  and  Tencent  rank  as   the  top  three  internetbased  companies  in     Figure 1  China Fintech Investment Activity of Venture CapitalBacked Companies    USD Million  3 000    Investment (LHS)    Deals (RHS)    37    2 675    2 500    2 000    1 500    1 000    500    0    26    10    205    2012    5    108    2011    16    198    2013    619    2014    2015    40    35    30    25    20    15    10    5    0    Source  KPMG  The Pulse of Fintech  2015 in Review (2016)    FinTech in China’s Capital Market  |  9    China is online payments  and Alibaba and   Tencent  combined  could  control  50%  to   60% of the FinTech market. Baidu also start  ed up its Baidu Brain project to consolidate   its FinTech status.    Billion  12    1 639 9.927    Hot investment    C H I N A    Figure 2  Internet Payments (including mobile) in China    RMB Trillion    Internet payments (LHS)    Internet payments transactions (RHS)    2 000    1 500    1 000    500    0    9    6    3    0    Hundred  4 000    3 000    2 000    821 4.948    374 2.472    153 0.922    2013    2014    2015    2016    Source  Payment and Clearing Association of China    Figure 3  China P2P Lending    RMB Billion  4 000    Transaction volume (LHS)  Number of P2P lending platforms (RHS)    Loans outstanding (LHS)    3 500    3 000    2 500    2 000    1 500    1 000    500    0    2 290    253    103.6    2014    Source  Wind Database    3 433    2 448    2 064    982    406.1    816.2    1 000    2015    2016    0    China. They are all entering into FinTech to   challenge the traditional financial services   industry.  Taking  advantage  of  their  large   customer bases and competitive advantag  es   they  provide  FinTech  solutions  across   a  variety  of  subsectors.  Alibaba  started  as   the largest ecommerce platform in China    and  it  has  now  become  a  giant  in  digital   payments  with  its  AliPay  app;  moreover    through its financial arm  Ant Financial  it   is  actively  tapping  into  the  opportunity  in     China's fastgrowing FinTech market. Actu  ally   founder  and  chairman   Jack  Ma   said   Alibaba is not a retail company  but a data   company which makes the most of big data   from its ecommerce transactions. In addi  tion  Tencent  through its social media app   WeChat   also  uses  a  “red  envelope”  func  tion  to  train  customers’  digital  payments   habit and occupies a dominant position in   FinTech. According to JPMorgan  what will   drive a large part of the FinTech market in     10  |  NOMURA JOURNAL OF ASIAN CAPITAL MARKETS  |  Autumn 2017 Vol.2/No.1    From  above   China  has  been  quite   active in FinTech solutions for the past few   years. Meanwhile the investment boom in   FinTech is on the way. According to KMPG    VC backed investments in China boomed in   2015 (Figure 1) and in 2016. Furthermore    Ernst and Young (EY) estimates that FinTech   investment in China reached USD 8.4 billion   among which 46% was raised by Ant Finan  cial. The sources of funding include govern  mentguided funds  private funds and IPOs.   More  than  750  governmentguided  funds   have been launched  which stimulates the   private funds to support startups. For late  stage FinTechs  Chinese FinTechs also ben  efit from an active IPO market  completing   more IPOs in the past 10 years than the lead  ing U.S. and UK exchanges. All provinces in   China also have provincial industrial funds   allocated  to  encourage  technology  invest  ment  from which the FinTech sector natu  rally benefits.    Explosive growth in ecommerce and   digital payments    Due to a large population and inter  net  consumption  habits   China  has  built   the  world’s  largest  ecommerce  market   (accounting for 47% of global digital sales)   and digital economy. Over 25% of the pop  ulation  about 358 million Chinese custom  ers  used mobile payments in 2015. In 2016    internet  payments  totaled  about  RMB   1 639 trillion (Figure 2)  among which RMB   200 trillion were mobile payments  nearly   50 times the amount of mobile payments   in the U.S. Additionally  Chinese SMEs have   historically been underserved by the tradi  tional banking system. This is one vital rea  son why P2P lending has prospered in the   past  few  years  (Figure  3)   and  now  faces   tightened supervision. Soaring demand for   financial services creates a significant base   of financial institutions to generate corpo  rate demand for FinTech solutions.    Regulatory pressure    The  People’s  Bank  of  China  (PBOC)   plays  a  central  role  in  formulating  guide  lines and has adopted an open and toler  ant stance while designing the regulatory   framework  for  internet  finance  which   will leave certain space for the continued   development  of  internet  finance  while   drawing the bottom line clearly. However    a large number of internet finance compa    nies are turning into FinTech fields. There   are at least two reasons for this phenom  enon.  For  one  thing   FinTech  firms  focus   on technology and circumvent regulations   on internet finance; for another  the regu  lators seek novel solutions like regulatory   technology  (RegTech)  to  better  comply   with  regulations   which  impose  pressure   on traditional financial institutions to tak  en more seriously on FinTech.    FinTech Development of   Capital Market in China    According  to  KPMG's  China  Leading  Fin  Tech  50  Report  for  2016   big  data  ranked   top  in  the  business  models  of  the  top  50   companies in the sector  while blockchain    internet  securities   investment  manage  ment  and crowdfunding ranked 9th  11th    12th   and  13th   respectively.  Since  data  is   at the heart of recent developments in the   financial  services  sector   companies  that   seek to harness the power of big data enjoy   a  significant  competitive  advantage  over   their peers.    Blockchain    A new report from Goldman Sachs In  vestment Research projects that the imple  mentation  of  blockchain  technology  could   streamline  the  clearing  and  settlement  of   cash securities  saving capital markets USD   1112  billion  globally  on  an  annual  basis.   The  adoption  of  blockchain  technology   provides  operational  transparency  for  the   asset  which greatly enhances the efficien  cy   safety  and  traceability  of  the  product.   Blockchain technology is not new to China   – about 80% of bitcoin volume is now ex  changed into and out of Chinese yuan – but   when it comes to its app in the capital mar  ket   blockchain  startups  are  mainly  at  the   experimental stage. In 2016  China’s Minis  try of Industry and Information Technology   published China Blockchain Technology and   Application  Development  White  Paper  and   organized  a  special  governmentindustry   working group to speed up promoting R&D   and deployment of blockchain applications.   Several consortiums that focus on the appli  cation of blockchain in finance  commerce    public  service   and  other  industries   have   been established in China. Some examples   are China Ledger Alliance  Financial Block    chain  Shenzhen  Consortium   Qianhai  In  ternational Blockchain Ecosphere Alliance    which  focus  on  the  application  of  block  chain in finance  commerce  public service    and other industries.    Representative cases  Baidu Finance an  nounced  the  issuance  of  the  first  block  chainbased  assetbacked  security  (ABS)   product in China in May 2017  backed by   RMB  424  million  worth  of  personal  car   leases;    Tencent  has  released  the  block  chain  consortium  platform   TrustSQL    and  launched  the  Financial  Blockchain   Cooperation  Alliance  (Shenzhen)   which   carries out research on the application of   blockchain in the financial services sector.   Alibaba has adopted blockchain technolo  gy for its charity project with the Chinese   Red  Cross  Foundation.  JD  Finance  tested   the first blockchain consortium with Chi  na  Unionpay.  Taiyiyun  Technology  is  a   blockchainbased enterprise that is listed   on  the  National  Equities  Exchange  and   Quotations (NEEQ). It has recently begun   collaborating  with  a  number  of  public   bodies  on  using  blockchain  technology   in financial services and insurance. It is a   member of Hyperledger  an open source   project  that  seeks  to  promote  the  devel  opment of blockchain globally. Antshares    which  was  launched  by  Shanghai  Haike   Internet  Financial  Information  and  Ser  vices (Onchain) in June 2014  is one of the   first blockchain services in China that pro  vides enterprises with customized block  chain  solutions  including  asset  register   transitions   enterprise  internal  risk  con  trol and voting and resolution.    These  blockchain     initiatives  are   baby  steps  into  the  finance  services  sec  tor and maybe will prosper in the future.   However  this trend is creating enormous   challenges  including  difficulties  in  inte  grating  with  current  ecosystems;  lack  of   security  protection  for  application  data    logic and operating environment; and is  sues around trust and protection of indi  viduals’ and business’ privacy.     Big data & AI    To  meet  demand  from  a  growing   generation of consumers for a richer land  scape of investment vehicles  wealth man  agement firms are launching smartphone   apps to appeal to this younger  newly rich   demographic.     Representative  cases   WeBank  has  ap  plied several innovative technologies such   as face recognition  voice recognition and   robotics in its mobile apps such as Credit   Particles   WeCar  Credit   etc.  WeBank  has     also  launched  We  Zhong  Financial  Man  agement  a mobile app for rural banking    as  well  as  another  app  for  the  interbank   market.  FUTUNN.COM  provides  services   to support the front  middle and back of  fice functions of securities companies. JFZ   is an internet wealth management compa  ny that provides wealth management ser  vices for high net worth individuals. Wacai   Money Manager is the company’s personal   wealth  management  platform  and  Wacai   Bao  is  designed  to  provide  its  users  with   bespoke  financial  management  services.   Shenzhen Suishou Technology was estab  lished  in  July  2011  and  is  wellknown  in   China  for  providing  wealth  management   services.    Meanwhile   an  even  newer  digital   tool  introduced  in  mid2016  by  digital   wealth  management  firms  provides  sim  plified investment advice through sophis  ticated automated online platforms. These   platforms   socalled  roboadvisors   are   modeled on U.S.based automated invest  ment  advisers  such  as  Wealthfront  and   Betterment.  They  incorporate  big  data   and AI to eliminate or reduce the need for   facetoface interaction with substantially   lower  costs   yet  provide  customised  on  line financial advisory services. Roboad  visory firstmovers in the Chinese market   include  CreditEase  which  launched  its   roboadvisory  product  ToumiRA  using   trading algorithms to match investors risk   preferences  and  objectives  to  their  opti  mal portfolios. Another notable player is   PINTEC with Xuanji  which automatically   rebalances  a  global  portfolio   including   onshore RMB and offshore USD assets  for   retail investors.*1 Zipeiyi develops AI sys  tems for securities and other financial ser  vices companies. Based on the concept of   making asset allocation more straightfor  ward  and  efficient   the  company  applies   AI  technology  to  the  asset  management   industry.  Tiger  Brokers  uses  a  variety  of   internet technologies  which are designed   to improve efficiency in the financial ser  vices sector and to facilitate investment in   global securities markets. Others offering   machineassisted investment advisory in  clude  Baidu  Gupiao   PingAn  One   MiCai   and Clipper Advisor.    Roboadvisory  could  well  reshape   the future of China’s wealth management   business. Which players succeed will de  pend on their developing clever partner  ships  with  global  peers.  They  will  also   need broad and deep asset offerings  port  folio  allocation   and  technological  supe  riority in big data analytics and machine   learning.    FinTech in China’s Capital Market  |  11    C H I N A    FinTech’s Influence on   China’s Capital Market    Serving more lowincome groups at   lower costs    Due to the costs  a large number of   lowincome  customers  (with  annual  net   income  less  than  RMB  100 000)  cannot   meet the threshold to invest in traditional   financial products. Chinese SMEs also have   the same problem. Despite this  about 358   million Chinese customers use mobile pay  ments  which create a solid foundation for   FinTech  development.  Actually   FinTechs   focus on serving the vast majority of peo  ple   including  the  lowincome  group   and   improving existing financial services. They   help  promote  efficiency  without  raising   costs  through  automation  and  simplifica  tion.  They  also  enable  disaggregation  of   the  traditional  value  chain  in  the  capital   market as they become more embedded in   business and consumption.    Boosting ruralinclusive financial   system    The  establishment  of  a  leading  dig  ital finance sector is increasingly expand  ing beyond the cities into the rural areas.   FinTechs  such  as  onlineonly  banks  can   reach  unbanked  individuals  in  line  with   the  Chinese  Government’s  policy  to  pro  mote financial inclusion. 71% of the coun  try’s 234 million unbanked adults and 54%   in the poorest two quintiles of households   live in rural areas. There are few physical   branches of banks in rural areas  but mo  bile  phones  are  another  story.  With  the   help  of  financial  apps   large  banks  like   Postal  Savings  Bank  of  China  (PSBC)  and   FinTech firms have expanded aggressively   into rural China.    Promoting cooperation between finan  cial institutions and FinTechs    In  order  to  increase  revenue  and   market share  more and more firms in the   securities  industry  will  seek  to  cooperate   with FinTechs. The FinTechs know how to   innovate products and services to deliver   more  value  to  underserved  clients  and   market segments. FinTechs have data and   technology; they have customer data  con  sumption  patterns  and  intimate  relation    ships  with  customers;  they  will  take  full   advantage of structured and unstructured   databases  or big data  on which sophisti  cated  analytics  will  be  processed  easily   and quickly to develop pricing and service   strategies.    Delivering regulatorydriven change at   acceptable cost    Farsighted  regulators  in  China  are   seeking to establish mechanisms to reduce   regulatory  uncertainty  and  time  cost  in   financial market. The PBOC  the country's   central bank  announced on 15 May 2017   that  it  has  set  up  a  committee   namely   People's  Bank  of  China  Financial  Tech  nology  Committee   to  enhance  research    planning and coordination of work on fi  nancial  technology.  The  central  bank  will   also increase the use of RegTech to boost its   capabilities in identifying  preventing and   dissolving  financial  risks   including  both   crosssector  and  crossmarket  risks   with   technology such as big data  AI and cloud   computing.  FinTechs  will  likely  benefit   from the transparency of RegTech to low  er the complexity and costs of maintaining   regulatory compliance.     Gaining competitive advantage    Technological  innovation  will  dis  rupt the competitive advantages of partici  pants in global capital markets. Regulation   may  cause  disruption  and  uncertainty.   However   it  is  also  creating  opportunities   for  new  players.  In  many  ways  technolo  gy  is  making  it  possible  for  new  entrants   to compete with or enhance existing play  ers  and  value  chains  –  examples  include   the  use  of  AI  to  displace  ‘voice’dominat  ed  markets  and  alternative  research  pro  viders  that  leverage  unstructured  data   to  generate  deeper  insights  into  existing   trends and market opportunities. In short    technology will touch and transform busi  ness models in a vast array of areas  such   as data management  market surveillance    cyber security  regulatory reporting  fund  ing and alpha capture.    The Future of Chinese   FinTech    As China will continue its policy of open  ing up to the outside World  its FinTech     firms  face  great  opportunities.  Chinese   FinTech firms will expand out of China   and foreign FinTech firms with compet  itive  advantage  will  enter  China.  How   can we seize the opportunity? Here are   some points which relate to the future of   Chinese FinTech.    Blockchain    In  China   blockchain  initiatives  are   still  in  the  early  stages  of  development    where major banks have only just started   to commission proofs of concept and pilot   projects  for  blockchain  applications.  Fin  Techs in Europe and America have more   mature technology solutions and can lever  age these innovations  capabilities and ex  pertise to develop the Chinese blockchain   market further.    RegTech and regulatory sandbox    FinTech  firms  abroad  have  devel  oped  solutions  related  to  compliance   ad  vanced data analytics and risk evaluation.   These  techniques  and  knowledge  could   all be leveraged to great effect in the Chi  nese marketplace as its FinTech sector and   regulatory framework mature further. Be  sides  the regulatory sandboxes in the UK    Singapore and elsewhere are friendly and   experienced  with  FinTech  startups;  their   authorization processes and guidance are   worth learning.    Foreign Exchange    China  will  gradually  relax  control   over  Qualified  Domestic   Institutional   Investors  (QDII)  and  Qualified  Foreign   Institutional  Investors  (QFII)  to  show  its   determination  to  speed  up  the  yuan's   convertibility  under  the  capital  account.   Money transfer FinTechs and traditional fi  nancial institutions can supply FX services   and ensure strict observance of laws in the   Chinese market.    Chinese investment demand    With  much  investment  flowing  be  tween  China  and  overseas   there  is  like  ly  a  strong  demand  to  meet  the  needs  of   FinTechs and investors in China. We may   start  to  see  more  direct  competition  be  tween  for example  Baidu and Google  Ali  baba and Amazon  Tencent and Facebook.   Whatever happens in China  there is no de  nying that incumbents and FinTech firms   alike will need to transform to remain rele  vant in this new world order. The next few   years will be an exciting time for the indus  try. Chinese FinTechs should look to part  ner with firms and financial institutions to   develop crossborder partnership to serve   this sizeable market.    12  |  NOMURA JOURNAL OF ASIAN CAPITAL MARKETS  |  Autumn 2017 Vol.2/No.1    Needless to say  China’s FinTech sec  tor will flourish in regulation  blockchain    trading   clearing   and  settlement  and  cre  ate a safe and efficient capital market for   the near future.    EY  and  DBS.  (2016)  The  Rise  of  FinTech  in  Chi  na.  Retrieved  from  http //www.ey.com/   Publication/vwLUAssets/eytheriseof   FinTechinchina/$FILE/eytheriseof   FinTechinchina.pdf.    World  Economic  Forum.  (2015)  The  Future  of   FinTech  A Paradigm Shift in Small Business   Finance.    Zhou  Weihan and Arner  Douglas W. and Buck  ley   Ross  P.   (2015)  “Regulation  of  Digital   Financial  Services  in  China   Last  Mover   Advantage.”    8BTC.  “Baidu  Finance  Issue  424m  Yuan  Block    chainbased ABS in China.” May 2017.     Goldman Sachs. (2016) “Profiles in Innovation    Blockchain   Putting  Theory  into  Practice.”   Retrieved   https //zh.scribd.com/  doc/313839001/ProfilesinInnovation   May2420161    from     Notes    *1  Regulations  regarding  offshore     invest  ments in foreign currency by retail inves  tors are not covered under the current le  gal framework. Therefore  investors using   this  service  provided  by  PINTEC  are  not   protected by law. (China Securities Regula  tory  Commission   http //www.csrc.gov.cn/  pub/newsite/djffzqqhhdj/ffzqqhjs/201607/  t20160726_301171.html)    Reference    Arner   Douglas  W.  and  Barberis   Janos.  (2015)   “FinTech  in  China   from  the  shadows?.”   Journal  of  Financial  Perspectives   3(3)    pp.7891.    EY.  (2016)  “China  and  UK  FinTech   Unlocking   opportunity.”  Retrieved  from  http //www.  ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/eychina   andukfintech/$File/eychinaanduk  fintech.pdf.    KPMG.     (2016)  “2016  China  Leading  Fin  tech  50.”  Retrieved  from  https //assets.  kpmg.com/content/dam/kpmg/cn/pdf/  en/2016/09/2016chinaleadingfintech50.  pdf.    “Chinese  central  bank  sets  up  fintech  commit    tee.” Xinhuanet. May 2017.    “Why Alibaba  Tencent Have At Least 65% Up    side?.” Barron’s. March 14  2017.    KPMG. (2016) “The Pulse of Fintech  2015 in Re  view.”  Retrieved  from  https //home.kpmg.  com/content/dam/kpmg/pdf/2016/06/pulse  offintech2015review.pdf.    Ministry of Industry and Information Technolo  gy. (2016) China Blockchain Technology and   Application  Development  White  Paper  (in   Chinese).    Pollari   Ian.  (2016)  “The  Rise  of  FinTech   Op  portunities and Challenges.” JASSA  3.  Re  trieved  from  http //www.finsia.com/docs/  defaultsource/jassanew/JASSA2016/   jassa2016issue3/jassa2016iss3therise  offintechpp1521.pdf?sfvrsn=5f839b93_4.    X I N G N A N   W A N G    Professor  Vice Principal of Guangdong Uni  versity of Finance    Dr. Wang is a professor in the Faculty of Fi  nance  at  Guangdong  University  of  Finance   (GDUF). He received Bachelor of Economics   and Master of Economics degrees from Xia  men  University   China   and  completed  the   doctoral  course  at  Kobe  University   Japan.   He  specializes  in  the  banking  system  and   banking  organization  theory   rural  finance   and microenterprise financing. Dr. Wang has   published more than 30 research and journal   papers  articles  and publications and is reg  ularly  consulted  by  provincial  governments   and  the  private  sector  on  various  economic   and finance policies.    R U I   H U A N G    Lecturer  Guangdong University of Finance     Dr. Huang is a programmer in the Behavioral   Finance and Regional Financial Labs at GDUF   and a researcher at the Guangzhou Internet   Finance Association. He received his bache  lor’s  degree  from  South  China  University  of   Technology and master’s degree from Shang  hai University of Finance and Economics. He   completed his doctoral degree at Jinan Uni  versity  China. He specializes in financial risk    financial  regulation  and  FinTech.  Dr.  Huang   has  published  more  than  10  research  and   journal  papers  and  regularly  undertakes   municipal  financial  planning  and  corporate   financial technology assessment.    FinTech in China’s Capital Market  |  13    