here  in file  SPECIALTY GRAND CHALLENGE  published  27 November 2018  doi  10.3389/frai.2018.00001    Fintech Risk Management  A  Research Challenge for Artiﬁcial  Intelligence in Finance    Paolo Giudici*    Department of Economics and Management  University of Pavia  Pavia  Italy    Keywords  regulatory technology  supervisory technology  blockchain  big data analytics  artiﬁcial intelligence     peerto peer lending (p2p lending)  roboadvisory  cryptoassets    OVERVIEW    The Financial Stability Board (2017b) deﬁnes FINancial TECHnology as “technologically  enabled ﬁnancial innovations that could result in new business models  applications  processes   or products with an associated material eﬀect on ﬁnancial markets and institutions and on the  provision of ﬁnancial services.”    While innovation in ﬁnance is not a new concept  the focus on technological innovations and  its pace have increased signiﬁcantly. Fintech solutions that make use of big data analytics  artiﬁcial  intelligence and blockchain technologies are currently introduced at an unprecedented rate. These  new technologies are changing the nature of the ﬁnancial industry  creating many opportunities  that oﬀer a more inclusive access to ﬁnancial services. The advantages notwithstanding  FinTech  solutions leave the door open to many risks  that may hamper consumer protection and ﬁnancial  stability. Relevant examples of such risks are underestimation of creditworthiness  market risk  uncompliance  fraud detection  and cyberattacks. Indeed ﬁntech risk management represent a  central point of interest for regulatory authorities  and require research and development of novel  measurements.    Across the world  there is a strong need to improve the competitiveness of the ﬁntech sector   introducing a risk management framework that can supervise ﬁntech innovations without stiﬂing  their economic potential. A framework that can help both ﬁntechs and supervisors  on one  hand  ﬁntech ﬁrms need advice on how to identify opportunities for innovation procurements   for example in advanced regulatory technology (RegTech) solutions; on the other hand  the  supervisory bodies’ ability to monitor innovative ﬁnancial products proposed by ﬁntechs is  limited  and advanced supervisory technology (SupTech) solutions are required. A crucial step  in transforming compliance and supervision is to develop uniform and technologydriven risk  management tools which could reduce the barriers between ﬁntechs and supervisors.    We believe that a focused international research activity  coordinated at the level of a highly  reputed open access scientiﬁc journal with multiple key foci  such as Frontiers in Artiﬁcial  Intelligence  can help to close the gap between technical and regulatory expertise  in particular  providing risk management procedures common to both sides. It could lead to the development of  a regulatory framework that encourages innovations in big data analytics  artiﬁcial intelligence and  blockchain technologies which  at the same time  satisﬁes supervisory concerns to apply regulations  in an eﬀective and eﬃcient way and which protect consumers and investors.    Regulations and related supervisory requirements are placing great focus on risk management  practices  which in turn drives the need for deep  transparent and auditable data analyses across  organizations. Technologies such as big data analytics  artiﬁcial intelligence and blockchain  ledgers may address risk management requirements and the associated costs more eﬃciently.  In particular   these technologies can  (i) reduce credit scoring bias and improve fraud    Edited and reviewed by     Rosario Nunzio Mantegna     Università degli Studi di Palermo  Italy    *Correspondence     Paolo Giudici    paolo.giudici@unipv.it    Received  25 September 2018    Accepted  05 November 2018    Published  27 November 2018    Citation     Giudici P (2018) Fintech Risk    Management  A Research Challenge    for Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Finance.    Front. Artif. Intell. 1 1.    doi  10.3389/frai.2018.00001    Frontiers in Artiﬁcial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org    1    November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1    Giudici    Fintech Risk Management    detection in peertopeer lending; (ii) measure and monitor  systemic risk in peertopeer lending; (iii) measure and monitor  market risk and volatility in ﬁnancial markets (iv) enhance  client risk proﬁle matching in roboadvisory; (v) identify illegal  activities in crypto markets  including fraudulent initial coin  oﬀerings and money laundering; (vi) identify and prioritize IT  operational risks and cyber risks.    In line with these developments     the specialty section  “Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Finance” of Frontiers in Artiﬁcial  Intelligence aims to create an international research forum  that provides and publishes key research on shared risk  management solutions that automatize compliance of ﬁntech  companies (RegTech) and  at the same time   increases the  eﬃciency of supervisory activities (SupTech). The Artiﬁcial  Intelligence in Finance section also builds synergies with  the broader  techfocused specializations with its own  journal and within Frontiers in Big Data and Frontiers in  Blockchain.    Currently  supervisors and ﬁntechs do not have a common  framework to understand the opportunities/risks balance   leading to diﬀerent perceptions. Artiﬁcial Intelligence in  Finance aims to provide a research forum to discuss solutions  that eﬃciently automatize both ﬁntech compliance (RegTech)  and supervisory monitoring (SupTech).    The vision of Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Finance is to  build a collaborative innovative environment  from which  both supervisory bodies and regulated institutions can beneﬁt.  Speciﬁcally  we aim at connecting the two sides of the coin by  organizing a forum for research discussion which will have the  purpose of sharing risk measurement solutions that ﬁt the needs  of both regulated institutions and regulators. The discussion  will draw on the contribution from three types of project  participants     i Fintech and ﬁnancial companies  who have a detailed  understanding of business models based on ﬁnancial  technologies;    and    ii Regulators    detailed  understanding of the regulations and risks that concern  ﬁnancial technologies;    supervisors  who    have    a    iii Universities and research centers  which have a detailed  understanding of the risk management models that can be  applied to ﬁnancial technologies.    the research content of    the journal will be  Conceptually   classiﬁed around three types of FinTech risk management  models  which will constitute the conceptual map of the journal  The classiﬁcation is based on the three main technologies that  drive FinTech innovations     i Big data analytics  with its application to peertopeer  lending  with main risks arising from credit risk  and systemic  risk;    ii Artiﬁcial intelligence  with its application to ﬁnancial robo  advice  with main risks arising from market risk and  compliance risk;    iii Blockchain  with main application to cryptoassets  with main  risks arising from fraud detection  money laundering risk  IT  operational risk and cyber risks.    Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Finance will consider research from all  the above three areas. Research in Big data and Blockchain   but also in AI more generally  neatly connects to other  Frontiers’ journals  such as Frontiers in Big Data and Frontiers  in Blockchain. This interdisciplinary infrastructure aims to  leverage collaborations and the expertise of diverse research  communities—something that  the center of FinTech  innovation.    is at    Innovative Technologies  The European Commission (2018) argues that the term big data  refers to “large amounts of diﬀerent types of data produced with  high velocity from a high number of various types of sources.” Big  data analytics refers to the variety of technologies  models and  procedures that involve the analysis of big data aimed revealing  insights  patterns of causality and of correlation  and to predict  future events (similarly to data science and to its predecessor  data  mining  see e.g.  Giudici  2003).    Over the years  academics and experts in computer science  and statistics have developed advanced techniques to obtain  insights from large datasets combining a variety of data types  obtained from a variety of sources (see Brito  2014). These  models are able to utilize the ability of computers to perform  complicated tasks by learning from experience. Following a  deﬁnition oﬀered by the Financial Stability Board (2017a)  artiﬁcial intelligence is a broad term capturing “the application  of computational tools to address tasks traditionally requiring  human sophistication.” It is important to mention that often  the terms AI and machine learning are used interchangeably.  However  Artiﬁcial Intelligence is a broader term  of which  machine learning represents a subcategory  the diﬀerence being  that machine learning is a datadriven way to achieve AI  but  not the only one; similarly  big data analytics is broader then  machine learning  as it includes also statistical learning. For a  further discussion on the diﬀerence between AI and Machine  Learning  see also Kersting (2018).    Among the emerging technologies with signiﬁcant potential  to change the ﬁnancial systems and industry from its core   the blockchain has received a signiﬁcant amount of attention  over the last few years. A blockchain is a distributed database  of records of all transactions or digital events that have been  executed and shared among participating parties (De Filippi  and Hassan  2016). Each transaction in the distributed database  of records is veriﬁed by the participants through a majority  consensus and  once conﬁrmed  the transaction can never be  altered or deleted (see for e.g.  Tasca and Hayes  2016). Hence  the  blockchain contains a certain and veriﬁable record of every single  transaction ever made between the participants in a network (see  e.g.  Pontiveros et al.  2018).    Financial Applications  Many ﬁntech applications rely on big data analytics and   in particular   those based on peertopeer (P2P) ﬁnancial  transactions  such as peer to peer lending  crowdfunding   and invoice trading. The concept peertopeer captures the  interaction between units  which eliminates the need for  a central  In particular  peertopeer lending  enacts disintermediation by allowing borrowers and lenders to    intermediary.    Frontiers in Artiﬁcial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org    2    November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1    Giudici    Fintech Risk Management    communicate directly  using the platform as an information  provider which  among other things  assesses the credit risk  of borrowers. From a regulatory perspective  a key point of  interest is whether such credit risk measurements reﬂect the  actual capacity of borrowers to repay their debt. Regulation must  be technologically neutral and  therefore  credit risk compliance  should be imposed on ﬁntechs as they are for banks. At the same  time  it cannot be so burdensome to disincentivise the growth of  alternative ﬁnancial service provides (see Talonen et al.  2016).    Automated consultants  known as    robot advisors  are  considered the main application of AI in ﬁnancial services.  The European Supervisory Authorities joint report deﬁnes the  phenomenon of automation in ﬁnancial advice as “a procedure in  which advice is provided to consumers without  or with very little  human intervention and with providers relying on computerbased  algorithm and/or decision trees.” In practice  robot advisors build  personalized portfolios for investors  on the basis of algorithms  that take into account investors’ information such as age  risk  tolerance and aversion  net income  family status. Obtaining this  information is a legal requirement and robot advisors employ  online questionnaires to obtain it.    Crypto assets are the main application of blockchain  technology and are considered one of the largest markets in  the world which remain unregulated. Within the last decade   digital currencies  operating independently of central banks have  massively grown in popularity  price  and volatility. The Bitcoin  is the oldest  most popular and widely used digital currency  and  it oﬀers lowcost  decentralized transfer of value anywhere in  the world with the only constraint representing the availability  of an internet connection. However  many other crypto assets  are available  and new ones are continuously emerging through  Initial Coin Oﬀerings  in which a company sells digital tokens  that eventually can be exchanged for goods  services or other  currencies. It is a new fundraising method  which combines  elements of both crowdfunding and traditional initial public  oﬀerings.    Risk Concerns and Management  Although there are many existing legislations that are intended to  serve in the interest of consumer and investor protection  lending  ﬁntechs give rise to “disintermediation ” which requires the need  for further protection of consumers and investors. In the case  of peer to peer lending  there are two main causes of concern.  First  P2P platforms have less information on their borrowers   compared to classical banks  and are less able to deal with  asymmetric information. Second  in most P2P lending platforms  the credit risk is not held by the platform but  rather  by the  investors. Both causes lead to a high likelihood that the scoring  system of P2P lenders may not adequately reﬂect the “correct”  probability of default of a loan. A further issue associated  with the nature of P2P platforms is that they give rise by  construction to globally interconnected networks of transactions.  they cannot avoid the measurement  This  that  of  arising  from contagion mechanisms  risks  between borrowers.    systemic    suggests    In the context of P2P lending  a key risk to measure is the risk  associated with the default of borrowers  credit risk. Statistical    theory oﬀers a great variety of supervised models for credit  scoring and credit risk management and  in particular  logistic  regression  and generalized linear models (Bernè et al.  2006). The  same models can be applied to similar classiﬁcation problems  in peertopeer lending  such as consumer’s fraud and money  laundering detection.    A key issue that arises in employing generalized linear  models for P2P classiﬁcation problems is that the event to be  predicted is multivariate. To solve this issue  Lauritzen (1996)  introduced graphical models to model dependencies between  random variables  by means of a unifying and powerful concept  of a mapping between probabilistic conditional independences   missing edges in a graphical representation  and suitable  statistical model parametrisations. In parallel  Mantegna (1999)  introduced hierarchical structures in ﬁnancial markets  based  on correlation matrices  developing a powerful distancebased  statistical model able to uncover similarity relationships among  ﬁnancial assets. These models have been applied in a variety  of ﬁnancial contexts  including credit scoring  churn modeling   and fraud detection (for a review see Giudici  2003; Guegan and  Hassani  2017).    In line with these developments  Giudici and HadjiMisheva  (2018) suggest to model credit risk of peer to peer lending  taking advantage of their natural interconnectedness  by means  of correlation network models  a subset of graphical models  that has been introduced in ﬁnance to measure systemic risks  risk (see e.g.  Arakelian and Dellaportas  2012; Battiston et al.   2012; Billio et al.  2012; Diebold and Yilmaz  2014; Výrost et al.   2015). This allows to improve the accuracy of credit risk models  and  furthermore  to measure a risk type that is particularly  evident in P2P lending  systemic risk  recently applied to bank   and sovereign default. Giudici and HadjiMisheva (2018) show  how to build a correlation network for P2P lending  associating  each borrower with a statistical unit  at each time point many  variables can be observed for that unit; in the case of SME  lending  balance sheet variables; in the case of consumer credit   transaction account variables. A correlation network (Mantegna   1999) between borrowers can then be built on the basis of  the observed values of one variable over time. Associating each  borrower with a node in the network  each pair of nodes can  be thought to be connected by an edge  whose weight is equal  to the correlation coeﬃcient between the twotime series of the  chosen variable  each corresponding to a speciﬁc borrower. If we  consider all pairs of borrowers  we will get a matrix of correlation  weights  also known as “adjacency matrix.” Once the adjacency  matrix is derived  summary network centrality measures suggest  which are the most important units in the network or   in  ﬁnancial risk terms  which are the most contagious borrowers  (Giudici and Spelta  2016; Tomašev et al.  2016). Furthermore   Giudici and HadjiMisheva (2018) show  in real P2P lending data  analysis that  when network centrality measures are embedded  in a generalized linear model speciﬁcation  they can improve the  predictive accuracy of credit scoring algorithms.    Moving to asset management ﬁntechs  note that    the  advantages associated with automatized advice may be oﬀset by  the greater risks that are brought on board  among which the  risks of making unsuitable decision (due to lack of information    Frontiers in Artiﬁcial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org    3    November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1    Giudici    Fintech Risk Management    or reduced opportunities) and risks of errors and functional  limitations of the tool. As is the case with big data analytics   there are several regulatory requirements that already exist and  apply to automated advice. However  some risks are yet to be  fully considered and measured. Among them  we believe the  following are the most relevant  (i) compliance risk—mismatch  between expected and actual investment risk class; (ii) market  risk—the likelihood that adverse movements and volatility in  ﬁnancial markets  either traditional or new (crypto markets)  cause unexpected losses in investors’ portfolios.    As for peer to peer lending  the increased risks connected  with the use of robot advisory platforms can be mitigated by an  appropriate analysis of the data they generate. In this respect   robot advisors generate  in an automated way  a large amount  of data  which can be leveraged not only to improve the service   making it more personalized  but also to reduce compliance  risk and  in particular  the risk of an incorrect proﬁle matching  between “expected” and “actual” risk classes (see e.g.  Valkanov   2016).    Recent studies have shown that an accurate analysis of risk  propensity questionnaires can allow roboadvisors to estimate  the “expected” risk class of each investor. Data analysis  algorithms can be implemented also on the supply side   considering the returns of the available ﬁnancial products to  classify them into homogeneous “actual” risk classes. Linking  together the “expected” risk classiﬁcation of an investor with  its “actual” classiﬁcation allows to evaluate whether a robot  advisor respects its risk proﬁle (Kabašinskas et al.  2017)  one  of the most important requirement of the MIFID regulation   which thus becomes  in the context of robot advisory  a veriﬁable  requirement  not only from a formal viewpoint  but also from an  operational one.    The literature on the measurement of expected risks in  robot advisory is very limited. Scherer (2016) investigates   within a machine learning approach based on tree models  the  key investor characteristics that can predict ﬁnancial market  participation; Alexy et al. (2016) is a related work. Similarly   the literature on the measurement of the actual risk of a given  set of ﬁnancial products is also very limited. Tumminello et al.  (2005) and Tola et al. (2008)  who employ clustering models  to construct homogeneous asset classes  and (Baitinger and  Papenbrock  2017)  who considered interconnectedness risk  are  noticeable exceptions.    Giudici and Polinesi    (2018) extend Scherer’s approach  deriving expected risk classes from the responses to the MIFID  questionnaire  building correspondence analysis models on  the observed contingency table  that results from the cross  classiﬁcation of the responses to the questionnaire. They also  show how to employ feed forward neural network models to  estimate the risk class of a given investor’s portfolio  on the basis  of the observed returns. By comparing the expected with the  actual risk class  for a sample of investors  it is thus possible  to evaluate  in an automated way  whether the robot advisor is  compliant with the risk proﬁle of the investor.    We remark that speciﬁc concerns arise  from a market risk  viewpoint  when crypto assets are combined with classical ones  in investment activities. In particular  bitcoins  and crytpoassets    have been associated with exceptionally high volatility and greatly  sensitive prices (see Jabłecki et al.  2015; Traian et al.  2017;  Žikovi´c Saša  2017; Chen et al.  2018). Indeed  ﬂuctuations are  very common throughout the existence of the crypto assets   which in turn raises the question whether this behavior is  attributed to general market conditions or to idiosyncratic  factors (as discussed by Makrichoriti and Moratis  2016). To  address these concerns  network models take the central stage   as could be expected. Nakamoto (2009) described the bitcoin  as a purely peertopeer version of electronic cash that allows  online payments to be send directly from one party to another   without going through a ﬁnancial  in its  essence  the bitcoin represents a solution to the doublespending  problem using a peertopeer network. This suggests that a  correct measure of the risks associated with this technology must  take into account the interconnections generated by network  transactions.    institution. Hence     In this context  correlation network models can be employed  to detect the main determinants of volatility (as in Papenbrock  and Schwendner  2015; Barucci and Marazzina  2016). More  recently   (Giudici and AbuHashish  2018) have applied  correlation VAR models to check whether price contagion  between diﬀerent bitcoin exchange markets exist  and found that  this is the case  especially for smaller exchanges.    Many innovative ﬁntechs have payment deals with the  application of blockchain technology. The main risk concerns  about blockchain applications in ﬁnance relate to operational  risks. Many international regulatory authorities have raised  signiﬁcant concerns suggesting that   in most cases  small  investors do not adequately understand the risk involved with  Initial Coin Oﬀerings. Although many legitimate startups use  ICOs for the purpose of raising money  many projects also exist  which do not intend to deliver any value to the investors. The  market has seen many such cases of fraudulent ICOs which  raises deep concerns for investor protection and overall ﬁnancial  stability. To identify the main determinants of fraudulent ICOs   text mining analytics methods  that use network models to  reduce their curse of dimensionality  can be applied. Following  most recent statistics  99% of all ICOs use Telegram as a  channel for interacting with their communities. Typically  the  Telegram groups are characterized by many members and  detailed discussions about the value of the individual projects  as  well as  by the expectations of the communities concerning the  success of the ICO and the company. By collecting data from the  Telegram ICOs (including the corresponding white papers) and  discussions on Telegram chats relating the value and prospects of  the projects in question  we can build  train  and test supervised  models to discriminate and classify ICOs by their probability  of fraud  using for example the methods shown in Hochreiter  (2015).    Another cause of concern is that crypto assets allow for a  multibillion dollar global market of anonymous transactions   which does not undergo any control. Hence  its emergence and  growth can create considerable challenges for market integrity   particularly from money laundering activities. Money laundering  embraces all those operations to disguise the illicit origin of  capital  to give it a semblance of legitimacy  and facilitate    Frontiers in Artiﬁcial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org    4    November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1    Giudici    Fintech Risk Management    the subsequent reinvestment in the lawful economy. A recent  study conducted by Foley et al. (2018) aims at quantifying  and characterizing the illegal trade facilitated by the Bitcoin   to provide a better understanding of the nature and scale of  the problem facing this technology. The results from the study  suggest that approximately onequarter of Bitcoin users and one  half of Bitcoin transactions are associated with illegal activity.  The authors found that around $72 billion of illegal activity  per year involves Bitcoin  which is close to the scale of the  US and European markets for illegal drugs. In the context  of money laundering detection  networkbased community  detection models can be employed. They exploit the transactional  network topology for the purpose of identifying communities  of users and  in particular  to identify communities of money  launderers  using the transactions between them. More formally   the method that can be applied is a network cluster analysis  algorithm that takes as inputs the set of users (“nodes” in network  terminology) and the trades between users (“edges” or “links”  in network terminology) (Foley et al.  2018). The output of the  algorithm is an assignment of users to communities such that  the “modularity” of the communities (density of links within  communities and sparsity of links between communities) is  maximized (Foley et al.  2018).    An additional cause of concern is that cryptoassets are fully  digital and  therefore  may lead to higher IT operational risks   such as errors in the functioning of the algorithms  and hacking  and manipulation of the algorithms (cyber attacks)  to name  only a few. While the literature on the quantitative measurement  of operational risk constitute a reasonably large body (see for  example Cruz  2002)  that on cyber risk measurement is very  limited. As cyber risks are very diﬀerent in nature  rare  and  typically not repeatable  a useful approach to measure them  is to consider an ordinalbased  scorecard approach  similar to  that done in selfassessmentbased operational risk management  (see e.g.  Giudici  2015)  in reputation measurement (see e.g.   Cerchiello and Giudici  2015) or in portfolio analysis using  stochastic dominance (Post and Potì  2016).    In this way a cyber risk measure can be used to rank cyber risks  and prioritize interventions  preventing failures and reducing ex  ante the impact of risks. This on the basis of ordinal random  variables  that represent the levels of frequency and severity for  diﬀerent cyber risk events  in diﬀerent business areas. A similar  approach can be consistently undertaken to measure operational  risks deriving from the use of roboadvisors  caused by their  malfunctioning  rather than by cyberattacks. Note also that an  ordinalbased measurement of operational risks and cyber risks    REFERENCES    Alexy  M.  Georgantzis  N.  Káˇcer  M.  and Péliová  J. (2016). Risk attitude  elicitation methods  do they tell similar stories? Ekonomický Casopis 64   847–877.    Arakelian  V.  and Dellaportas  P.    (2012) Contagion determination via  copula and volatility threshold models. Quant. Finance 12  295–310.  doi  10.1080/14697680903410023    Baitinger  E.  and Papenbrock  J. (2017). Interconnectedness risk and active  Invest. Strate. 6  63–90. doi  10.2139/ssrn.    J.    portfolio management.  290983    can be easily adapted to scenario testing  which is one of the best  ways for the ﬁnancial industry to protect from them  speciﬁcally  when they are conducted across the industry.    CONCLUSIONS    In this paper  we have focused on the emerging topic of ﬁnancial  technology. We have ﬁrst identiﬁed the main technological  drivers of change  big data analytics  artiﬁcial intelligence  and  blockchain technology; and their main ﬁnancial applications   in banking (peer to peer lending); in asset management (robot  advisory); and in payment systems (crypto assets).    Our vision is to encourage the development and the growth  of ﬁnancial technologies  making them sustainable  minimizing  their possible negative impacts on consumers and investors. This  goal can be achieved through the development of appropriate risk  management methods  whose compliance burden can be limited  by the technology itself.    To achieve this aim  the paper has presented the main risk  concerns that arise with the development of the most important  ﬁnancial technologies  and has suggested research directions in  risk measurement models  appropriate to manage and mitigate  the involved risks.    A strict collaboration and open discussion between academics   ﬁntech experts  and regulators can help move us ahead in  this direction  developing ﬁntech risk management models that   while limiting the negative impact of disrupting technologies   encourage their development. The journal Frontiers in Artiﬁcial  Intelligence  with the research specialty Artiﬁcial Intelligence in  Finance  will be key in fostering collaborations and stimulating  research debates on risk management practices. The goal is to  share with the community the best practices to measure ﬁntech  risks. Practices that could be employed to oﬀer “automated” risk  management tools  for both RegTech and SupTech purposes   thus making ﬁntech innovations competitive and sustainable.    AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS    The author conﬁrms being the sole contributor of this work and  has approved it for publication.    FUNDING    This work is taken from the proposal to the EC Horizon 2020  Funding Call Grant ICT352018 (Grant number 825215 FIN  TECH)  which was approved on August 9  2018.    Barucci  E.  and Marazzina  D. (2016) Asset management  high water mark and    ﬂow of funds. Operat. Res. Lett. 44  607–611. doi  10.1016/j.orl.2016.07.002    Battiston  S.  Delli Gatti  D.  Gallegati  M.  Greenwald  B.  and Stiglitz  J. E. (2012).  Liaisons dangereuses  Increasing connectivity  risk sharing  and systemic risk.  J. Econ. Dyn. Control 36  1121–1141. doi  10.1016/j.jedc.2012.04.001    Bernè  F.  Ciprian  M.  Fanni  N.  Marassi  D.  and Pediroda  V. (2006). Multi  criteria credit rating (MCCR)  a credit rating assignment process for Italian  enterprises according to BASEL II. J. Finan. Dec. Making 2  1–26.    Billio  M.  Getmansky  M.  Lo  A. and Pellizzon  L. (2012) Econometric measures of  systemic risk in the ﬁnance and insurance sector. J. Finan. Econ. 104  535–559.  doi  10.1016/j.jﬁneco.2011.12.010    Frontiers in Artiﬁcial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org    5    November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1    Giudici    Fintech Risk Management    Brito  P. (2014) Symbolic data analysis  another look at the interaction of  data mining and statistics. WIREs Data Mining Knowl. Disc. 4  281–295.  doi  10.1002/widm.1133    Lauritzen (1996). Graphical Models. Oxford  Wiley.  Makrichoriti  P.  and Moratis  G. (2016). BitCoin’s Roller Coaster  Systemic Risk and    Market Sentiment. Athens  Working Paper.    Cerchiello  P.  and Giudici  P. (2015). How to measure the quality of ﬁnancial    Mantegna (1999). The European Physical Journal B  Condensed Matter and    tweets. Qual. Quant. 50  1–19. doi  10.1007/s1113501502296    Complex Systems  Vol. 11. Berlin  193–197.    Chen  C. Y. H.  Härdle  W. K.  Ai  J. H. and Wang  W. (2018) Pricing  case of CRIX and Bitcoin. SFB DP.    the    cryptocurrency options   doi  10.2139/ssrn.3159130    Cruz  M. G. (2002). Modelling  Measuring and Hedging Operational Risk.    New York  NY  Wiley Finance.    De Filippi  P.  and Hassan  S. (2016). Blockchain Technology as a Regulatory  Technology  From Code is Law to Law is Code. Chicago  IL  First Monday.  doi  10.5210/fm.v21i12.7113    Diebold  F.  and Yilmaz  K. (2014). On the network topology of variance  decompositions  measuring the connectedness of ﬁnancial ﬁrms. J. Econ. 182   119–134. doi  10.1016/j.jeconom.2014.04.012    European Commission (2018). Fintech Action Plan  For a More Competitive and    Innovative European Financial Sector. European Commission.    Financial Stability Board (2017a). Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning in  Financial Services  Market Developments and Financial Stability Implications.  Financial Stability Board.    Financial Stability Board (2017b). Financial Stability Implications for Fintech   Supervisory and Regulatory Issues that Merit Authorities’ Attention. Financial  Stability  Board.    Foley  S.  Karlsen  J. R.  and Putnins  T. J. (2018). Sex  Drugs and Bitcoin  How Much  Illegal Activity is Financed Through Cryptocurrencies. London  Working Paper.    Giudici  P. (2003). Applied Data Mining. London  Wiley.  Giudici  P. (2015). Scorecard models for operational management. Int. J. Data Sci.    1  96–101. doi  10.1504/IJDS.2015.069055    Giudici  P.  and AbuHashish (2018). What determines bitcoin exchange prices  a  network VAR approach. Finance Res. Lett. doi  10.1016/j.frl.2018.05.013. [Epub  ahead of print].    Giudici  P.  and HadjiMisheva  B. (2018). Network Scoring Models for P2P Lending.    London  Submitted Paper.    Giudici  P.  and Polinesi  G. (2018). Risk classiﬁcation methods in Robot Advisory    Platform. Pavia  Submitted Technical Paper.    Giudici     P.     and    Spelta  A.    international ﬁnancial ﬂows.  for  doi  10.1080/07350015.2015.1017643    (2016). Graphical    network models  J. Bus. Econ. Stat. 34  126–138.    Guegan  D.  and Hassani  B. (2017) Regulatory learning  how to supervise machine  learning models? An application to credit scoring. J. Finance Data Sci. 4   157–171. doi  10.1016/j.jfds.2018.04.001    Hochreiter  R. (2015). Computing trading strategies based on ﬁnancial sentiment  data using evolutionary optimization. Adv. Intell. Syst. Comp. 378  181–191.  doi  10.1007/9783319198248_15    Jabłecki  J.  Kokoszczynski  R.  Sakowski P.  Slepaczuk  R.  and Wójcik  P. (2015).  Volatility as an Asset Class  Obvious Beneﬁts and Hidden Risks. Frankfurt  Peter  Lang.    Kabašinskas  A.  Šutiene  K.  Kopa  M.  and Valakeviˇcius  E. (2017) The risk–return  proﬁle of Lithuanian private pension funds. Econ. Res. Ekonomska IstraŽivanja  30  1611–1630. doi  10.1080/1331677X.2017.1383169  Kersting  K. (2018). Machine learning and artiﬁcial    intelligence  two fellow  travelers on the quest for intelligent behavior in machines. Front. Big Data 1 6.  doi  10.3389/fdata.2018.00006    Nakamoto  S. (2009). Bitcoin  A PeertoPeer Electronic Cash System. White Paper.  Papenbrock  J.  and Schwendner  P. (2015). Handling Risk On/Risk Oﬀ dynamics  with correlation regimes and correlation networks. Finan. Mark. Portf. Manage.  29  125–147. doi  10.1007/s1140801502482    Pontiveros  B. B. F.  Norvill  R.  and State  R. (2018). Monitoring the Transaction  Selection Policy of Bitcoin Mining Pools. To appear in NOMS 2018  IEEE/IFIP  Man2Block    Post  T.  and Potì  V. (2016) Portfolio analysis using stochastic dominance   likelihood. Manage. Sci. 63  153–165.    relative entropy  and empirical  doi  10.1287/mnsc.2015.2325    Scherer  M. U.    (2016). Regulating artiﬁcial    risks   challenges  competencies  and strategies. Harvard J. Law Technol. 29   1–48. doi  10.2139/ssrn.2609777    intelligence    systems     Talonen  A.  Kulmala  J.  and Ruuskanen  O. P. (2016). “Cooperative platforms   harnessing the full potential of crowdfunding ” in European Conference  on Innovation and Entrepreneurship (Jyväskylä  Academic Conferences  International Limited)  810.    Tasca  P.  and Hayes  P. (2016). “Blockchain and crypto currencies ” in The Fintech    Book (London  Wiley). Available online at  http //theﬁntechbook.com/    Tola  V.  Lillo  F.  Gallegati  M.  and Mantegna  R. N.    (2008). Cluster  analysis for portfolio optimization. J. Econ. Dyn. Control 32  235–258.  doi  10.1016/j.jedc.2007.01.034    Tomašev  N.  Buza  K.  and Mladenic  D. (2016) Correcting the hub occurrence  prediction bias in many dimensions. Comp. Sci. Inform. Syst. 13  1–21.  doi  10.2298/CSIS140929039T    Traian  P.D.  Emese  L.  and Alfonso  D. (2017). Information entropy and measures    of market risk. Entropy 19  226–245. doi  10.3390/e19050226    Tumminello  M.  Aste  T.  Di Matteo  T.  and Mantegna  R. N. (2005). A tool  for ﬁltering information in complex systems. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 102   10421–10426. doi  10.1073/pnas.0500298102    Valkanov  N. (2016). Financial Science – Between Dogma and Reality. Varna     Science and Economics  400–445.    Výrost  T.  Lyócsa  Š.  and Baumöhl  E. (2015). Granger causality stock market  networks  temporal proximity and preferential attachment. Phys. A Stat. Mech.  Appl. 427  262–276. doi  10.1016/j.physa.2015.02.017    Žikovi´c Saša (2017). “Measuring ﬁnancial risk in energy markets ” in Applied  Quantitative Finance 3rd Edn  eds C. Chen  W. K. Härdle  and L. Overbeck  (Berlin; Heidelberg  Springer)  295–308.    Conﬂict of Interest Statement  The author declares that the research was  conducted in the absence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could  be construed as a potential conﬂict of interest.    Copyright © 2018 Giudici. This is an openaccess article distributed under the terms  of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use  distribution or  reproduction in other forums is permitted  provided the original author(s) and the  copyright owner(s) are credited and that the original publication in this journal  is cited  in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use  distribution or  reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms.    Frontiers in Artiﬁcial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org    6    November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1    