here  in file  FinTech/RegTech    Machine Learning    A Revolution in Risk   Management and   Compliance?    Bart van Liebergen – Associate Policy Advisor  Institute of International Finance    Abstract  Machine learning and artificial intelligence are big topics in the   financial services sector these days. Financial institutions (FIs)   are looking to more powerful analytical approaches in order to   manage and mine increasing amounts of regulatory reporting   data and unstructured data  for purposes of compliance and   risk management (applying machine learning as “RegTech”) or   in  order  to  compete  effectively  with  other  FIs  and  FinTechs.   This article aims to give an introduction to the machine learn  ing field and discusses several application cases within finan  cial institutions  based on discussions with IIF members and   technology ventures  credit risk modeling  detection of credit   card fraud and money laundering  and surveillance of conduct   breaches at FIs.    Two tentative conclusions emerge on the added value of ap  plying machine learning in the financial services sector. First      the ability of machine learning methods to analyze very large   amounts of data  while offering a high granularity and depth of   predictive analysis  can improve analytical capabilities across   risk management and compliance areas in FIs. Examples are   the  detection  of  complex  illicit  transaction  patterns  on  pay  ment systems and more accurate credit risk modeling. Sec  ond   the  application  of  machine  learning  approaches  within   the financial services sector is highly contextdependent. Am  ple   highquality  data  for  training  or  analysis  are  not  always   available  in  FIs.  More  importantly   the  predictive  power  and   granularity of analysis of several approaches can come at the   cost of increased model complexity and a lack of explanatory   insight. This is an issue particularly where analytics are applied   in a regulatory context  and a supervisor or compliance team   will want to audit and understand the applied model.    60    Machine Learning  A Revolution in Risk Management and Compliance?    INTRODUCTION    In  recent  years   machine  learning  and  artificial  intelligence   have  seen  increasing  interest  and  popularity  in  the  financial   services community  as hopes are that they can dramatically   improve analytical capabilities and streamline and automate all   kinds of business lines including credit underwriting  compli  ance  interaction with clients  and risk management. The Insti  tute of International Finance (IIF) has previously written about   the use of machine learning/AI as “RegTech” in banking  and   in the new business models of FinTech.1    In past years  the amounts of data gathered in financial institu  tions (FIs) have increased significantly as the detail of reporting   requirements has mushroomed and digitalization of services is   creating a large amount of highfrequency  unstructured con  sumer data. As a result  FIs have a clear need for more pow  erful analytical tools to cope with large amounts of data of all   kinds of sources and formats  while maintaining or improving   granularity of analysis. Machine learning is widely seen in the   financial services sector as a technique that may deliver that   analytical power. It is a subfield of statistics that quickly gained   prominence in the tech community in recent years. While el  ements of machine learning go back to the early 20th centu  ry  widespread use picked up as computing innovations and   greater availability of highfrequency data allowed it to mod  el  complex   nonlinear  relationships   while  making  machine   learning much easier to be applied.    This  article  aims  to  shed  more  light  on  the  concept  of  ma  chine learning and its uses within financial services  machine   learning’s  links  with  other  types  of  statistical  analysis   its   possibilities   and  its  limits.  It  will  also  briefly  touch  on  deep   learning  a form artificial intelligence that has its roots in ma  chine learning. Thereafter  applications within banking will be   discussed through three use cases of machine learning  credit   risk modeling  detection of fraud and money laundering  and   surveillance of conduct breaches and abusive behavior within   financial institutions.    BACKGROUND TO MACHINE LEARNING    Machine learning comprises a broad range of analytical tools    which  can  be  categorized  into  “supervised”  and  “unsuper  vised”  learning  tools.  Supervised  machine  learning  involves   building  a  statistical  model  for  predicting  or  estimating  an   output  based  on  one  or  more  inputs  (e.g.   predicting  GDP   growth based on several variables). In unsupervised learning      a dataset is analyzed without a dependent variable to estimate   or predict. Rather  the data is analyzed to show patterns and   structures in a dataset.2    Machine learning is a particularly powerful tool for prediction   purposes.  By  identifying  relationships  or  patterns  in  a  data   sample  it is able to create a model incorporating those rela  tionships that lead to the most powerful outofsample predic  tions. Such a model is created by running variables and the   model on subsamples of the data to identify the most powerful   predictors  and then testing the model on many different data   subsamples.3  This  can  be  done  thousands  of  times  so  that   the model can “learn” from the data and improve its predictive   performance. Due to its reliance on large datasets and heavy   computing power  machine learning is closely associated with   the “big data revolution.” In all  “[t]he extraordinary speedup   in computing in recent years  coupled with significant theoret  ical advances in machinelearning algorithms  have created a   renaissance in computational modeling.”4    The  accuracy  of  some  supervised  machine  learning  ap  proaches is further augmented through their ability to conduct   nonparametric analyses  which can flexibly fit any model to   estimate  the  data.  This  is  in  contrast  to  some  conventional   statistical  approaches  that  start  out  by  making  an  assump  tion about the relationship between the dependent and inde  pendent  variable.  Linear  regression   for  example   assumes   that this relationship is linear  while this does not necessarily   need to be the case. Several machine learning approaches  in   contrast  are also able to infer nonlinear relationships  which   makes them better able to fit the data.    1  See IIF  “Regtech in financial services  technology solutions for compliance and     reporting ” March 2016  at http //bit.ly/2mD0q39. Also  IIF  “Digitizing intelligence    AI  Robots and the future of finance” at http //bit.ly/1WIEbE6.     2  James  G.  D. Witten  T. Hastie  and R. Tibshirani  2013  An introduction to   statistical learning  with applications in R  Springer Texts in Statistics. The   difference between both methods has also been described as the supervised ML   being based on “labeled” data to train the algorithm  while unsupervised ML lacks   training data with such labels and has to determine correlations by itself. However    this is the same as having a dependent variable or not  labels in the training data   are values of the dependent variable.    3  Large datasets are typically divided into several separate samples to estimate a   model (training)  to choose the model (validation)  and to evaluate how well the   chosen model performs (testing).    4  Khandani  E. A. J. Kimz  and A. W. Lox  2010  “Consumer credit risk models via     machinelearning algorithms ” Journal of Banking & Finance 34  2767–2787    61    THE CAPCO INSTITUTE JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL TRANSFORMATIONMachine Learning  A Revolution in Risk Management and Compliance?    Machine learning methods  The  machine  learning  spectrum  comprises  many  different   analytical methods  whose applicability varies with the types   of  statistical  problem  one  might  want  to  address.  Broadly   speaking  machine learning can be applied to three classes of   statistical problems  regression  classification  and clustering.   Regression  and  classification  problems  both  can  be  solved   through  supervised  machine  learning;  clustering  is  an  unsu  pervised machine learning approach.    Regression problems involve prediction of a quantitative  con  tinuous dependent variable  such as GDP growth or inflation.   Linear learning methods try to solve regression problems in  cluding partial least squares5 and principal component analy  sis; nonlinear learning methods include penalized regression   approaches   such  as  LASSO  and  elastic  nets.6  In  penalized   approaches  a factor is typically added to penalize complexity   in the model  which should improve its predictive performance.    Classification problems typically involve prediction of a quali  tative (discrete) dependent variable  which takes on values in   a class  such as blood type (A/B/AB/O). An example is filtering   spam  email   where  the  dependent  variable  can  take  on  the   values SPAM/NO SPAM. Such problems can be solved by a   decision tree  “which aims to deliver a structured set of yes/no   questions that can quickly sort through a wide set of features    and thus produce an accurate prediction of a particular out  come.”7 Support vector machines also classify observations    but  by  applying  and  optimizing  a  margin  that  separates  the   different classes more efficiently.8    In  clustering   lastly   only  input  variables  are  observed  while   a  corresponding  dependent  variable  is  lacking.  An  example   is exploring data to detect fraud without knowing which ob  servations are fraudulent and which not. An antimoney laun  dering (AML) analysis may nonetheless yield insights from the   data by grouping them in clusters according to their observed   characteristics. This may allow an analyst to understand which   transactions are similar to others. In some instances  unsuper  vised learning is first applied to explore a dataset; the outputs   of this approach are then used as inputs for supervised learn  ing methods.9    Table  1  classifies  popular  machine  learning  approaches  ac  cording  to  their  (un)supervised  learning  character   and  the   types of problems they can be applied to.    Prediction versus explanation  Machine learning’s ability to make outofsample predictions   does  not  necessarily  make  it  appropriate  for  explanation  or     Linear methods    Nonlinear methods    Supervised    Regression    • Principal components   • Ridge  • Partial least squares  • LASSO    Classification    Support vector   machines    Penalized regression   • LASSO  • LARS  • elastic nets  Neural networks and   deep learning    Decision trees    • classification trees  • regression trees  • random forests  Support vector   machines  Deep learning    e  p  y  t       l    m  e  b  o  r  P    Unsupervised    Clustering*    Clustering methods  K and Xmeans  hierarchical  Principal components analysis  Deep learning  * Since unsupervised methods do not describe a   relation between a dependent and interdependent   variable  they cannot be labelled linear or non  linear.    Table 1 – Overview of machine learning methods    inference as well  as statistical methods are typically subject to   a tradeoff between explanatory and predictive performance.   A good predictive model can be very complex  and may thus   be very hard to interpret.10 For predictive purposes  a model   would need only to give insight in correlations between vari  ables  not in causality. In the case of credit scoring a loan port  folio  a good inferential model would explain why certain bor  rowers do not repay their loans. Its inferential performance can   be assessed through its statistical significance and its good  nessoffit within the data sample. A good predictive model    on the other hand  will select those indicators that prove to be   the strongest predictors of a borrower default. To that end  it     5  PLS is used to find the fundamental relations between two matrices through linear     regression.    6  LASSO stands for least absolute shrinkage and selection operator. LASSO and     elastic nets both perform variable selection  yet apply different types of penalties   for model complexity.    7  Tiffin  A.  2016  “Seeing in the dark  a machinelearning approach to nowcasting in     Lebanon ” IMF Working Paper WP/16/56  March    8  Auria  L.  and R. Moro  2008  “Support vector machines as a technique for     solvency analysis ” Deutsches Institut für Wirtschaftsforschung  discussion papers   no. 811  Berlin.    9  Bholat  D.  S. Hansen  P. Santos  and C. SchonhardtBailey  2015  “Text mining for     central banks  handbook ” CCBS Handbook No. 33  Bank of England    10  Tiffin (2016)    62    THE CAPCO INSTITUTE JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL TRANSFORMATIONMachine Learning  A Revolution in Risk Management and Compliance?    does not matter whether an indicator reflects a causal factor of   the borrower’s ability to repay  or a symptom of it. What mat  ters is that it contains information about the ability to repay.    Tackling overfitting  bagging and ensembles  Excessively  complex  models  can  also  lead  to  “overfitting ”   where they describe random error or noise instead of under  lying  relationships  in  the  dataset.  Model  complexity  can  be   due to having too many parameters relative to the number of   observations.11  In  machine  learning   overfitting  is  particularly   prevalent in nonparametric  nonlinear models  which are also   complex by design (and therefore also typically hard to inter  pret). When a model describes noise in a dataset  it will fit that   one data sample very well  but will perform poorly when tested   outofsample.12    approaches.  It  can  only  be  more  accurate  at  inferring  those   correlations. However  one observer has noted  “[i]f you have   no idea what is behind a correlation  you have no idea what   might cause that correlation to break down.”17    Deep learning and neural networks  from   machine learning to artificial intelligence  So far  discussion has focused on “classic” machine learning   methods that are applied to statistical problems with wellde  fined and structured datasets. Additionally  machine learning   approaches  have  been  advanced  and  combined  to  solve  all   kinds  of  complex  problems   functioning  as  “artificial  intelli  gence.” One of the dominant approaches is deep learning  a   learning approach that can be based on both supervised and   nonsupervised methods; all are nonlinear.18    There  are  several  ways  to  deal  with  overfitting  and  improve   the  forecast  power  of  machine  learning  models   including   “bootstrapping ” “boosting” and “bootstrap aggregation” (also   called  bagging).13  Boosting  concerns  the  overweighting  of   scarcer observations in a training dataset to ensure the model   will train more intensively on them. For example  one may want   to overweight the fraudulent observations due to their relative   scarcity when training a model to detect fraudulent transac  tions in a dataset. In “bagging ” a model is run hundreds or   thousands of times  each on a different subsample of the data  set  to improve its predictive performance. The final model is   then an average of each of the run models. Since this average   model  has  been  tested  on  a  lot  of  different  data samples   it   should be more resilient to changes in the underlying data. A   “random forest” is an example of a model consisting of many   different decision treebased models.     Econometricians can take this concept even further by combin  ing the resulting model with a model based on another machine   learning technique. The result is a socalled ensemble  a model   consisting of a group of models whose outcomes are combined   by weighted averaging or voting.14 It has been shown that aver  aging over many small models tends to give better outofsam  ple prediction than choosing a single model.15     A theoryfree approach to analysis?  Due to a typical lack of explanatory power and inherent com  plexity  of  machine  learning  models   the  discipline  has  been   criticized by some as “a theoryfree analysis of mere correla  tions ” which is “inevitably fragile.”16 Machine learning relies on   found  insample  (past)  correlations  to  predict  outofsample   (future)  correlations   without  always  offering  an  understand  ing of the relationship analyzed. In that sense  it is as much   a  backwardlooking  way  of  prediction  as  other  statistical     In deep learning  multiple layers of algorithms are stacked to   mimic neurons in the layered learning process of the human   brain. Each of the algorithms is equipped to lift a certain fea  ture from the data. This socalled representation or abstrac  tion  is  then  fed  to  the  following  algorithm   which  again  lifts   out another aspect of the data.19 The stacking of representa  tionlearning  algorithms  allows  deeplearning  approaches  to   be  fed  with  all  kinds  of  data   including  lowquality   unstruc  tured data; the ability of the algorithms to create relevant ab  stractions of the data allows the system as a whole to perform   a relevant analysis. Crucially  these layers of features are not   designed by human engineers  but learned from the data using   a generalpurpose learning procedure.20    11  For example  R2  a goodnessoffit indicator  tends to increase (and cannot     decrease) with any variable that is added to the model  whether or not it makes   sense in the context. See Ramanathan  R.  2002  “Introductory econometrics with   applications  SouthWestern    12  James et al. (2013)  p. 22.  13  In regression models  overfitting is also mitigated through “ridge regression” or     “LASSO ” both of which add a factor penalizing complexity from having too many   variables.    14  Tiffin (2016).  15  Varian  H.  2014  “Big data  new tricks for econometrics ” Journal of Economic     Perspectives 28 2  327    16  Harford  T.  2014  “Big data  are we making a big mistake?” Financial Times      March 28    17  Ibid.  18  Najafabadi  M. M.  F. Villanustre  T. M. Khoshgoftaar  N. Seliya  R. Wald  and     E. Muharemagic  2015  “Deep learning applications and challenges in big data   analytics ” Journal of Big Data 2 1    19  LeCun  Y.  Y. Bengio  and G. Hinton  2015  “Deep learning ” Nature 521 28      436–444    20  Ibid.    63    THE CAPCO INSTITUTE JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL TRANSFORMATIONMachine Learning  A Revolution in Risk Management and Compliance?    Deep learning is being applied to a wide range of uses. The   ability  to  crunch  large  amounts  of  raw  data  and  to  identify   complex patterns in it makes it particularly wellplaced to ana  lyze “big data ” such as the user datasets of tech giants  such   as Google  Microsoft  and Amazon.    Given that it was partly developed by the U.S. National Secu  rity Agency  it is perhaps unsurprising that deep learning has   proved  to  be  very  proficient  at  face  recognition  and  natural   language  understanding   including  question  answering  and   language  translation.  Upon  “overhearing”  a  discussion   it  is   able to classify the topic of discussion and the sentiments of   the  speakers.21  While  some  conventional  machinelearning   approaches can be equipped to solve nonnumeric problems   as well (for example  xmeans clustering has been applied to   text mining)  deep learning has often proved to be more ac  curate. However  a typical deeplearning system is extremely   complex and requires a dataset with hundreds of millions of   labeled observations only to be trained. In many fields  avail  ability  of  sufficient  data  for  such  extremely  large  datasets  is   hardly a given.    Application within financial services  In  past  years   the  amounts  of  data  gathered  in  financial  in  stitutions  (FIs)  have  increased  significantly  as  the  details  of   reporting  requirements  have  mushroomed  and  digitalization   of services is creating a large amount of highfrequency  un  structured consumer data. As a result  FIs have a clear need   for more powerful analytical tools to cope with large amounts   of data of all kinds of sources and formats  while maintaining   or improving granularity of analysis.    After the financial crisis of 200809  many new regulations and   supervisory measures were introduced that required FIs to re  port more detailed and more frequent data on more aspects   of their business models and balance sheets. Under the new   capital  regime   banks  report  large  exposures   liquidity  mea  sures  collateral  and capital levels. Stress tests are based on   all kinds of firm data including loanlevel balance sheet data   and  qualitative  aspects  of  the  business  model.  The  Federal   Reserve’s CCAR exercise requires FIs to consider the impact   of more than 2000 economic variables on their business. For   insurers  Solvency II has dramatically increased reporting re  quirements.     These processes create large amounts of reporting data that   need  to  be  welldefined  and  structured   aggregated  across   the group  and delivered intime with supervisors. Regulators   have   therefore   introduced  numerous  initiatives  to  improve   the  quality  of  supervisory  data  and  the  ability  of  financial     institutions to deliver these data. The Basel Committee’s Prin  ciples for Risk Data Aggregation (Basel 239) sets standards for   GSIBS to improve their IT systems and reporting structures.   IFRS 9 aims to improve the quality of supervisory data.    Apart  from  reporting  data   FIs  are  increasingly  able  to  gath  er large amounts of lowquality  unstructured  highfrequency   data.  These  include  outputs  from  consumer  apps  and  other   digital interactions with clients  metadata from payment sys  tems  and external data sources  such as social media feeds    which can be mined to gauge insights on market sentiment.   This type of data is typically called “big data.”    With  practically  all  aspects  of  FI’s  business  model  regulated   and  supervised  with  detailed  risk  metrics   running  a  bank    insurer   or  asset  manager  is  increasingly  becoming  a  matter   of  optimization  within  hundreds  of  constraints.  To  compete   effectively  they need to find this optimum while also mining   consumer data for detailed insights on client preferences and   behavior.    The extensive set of machine learning approaches is well sit  uated to deliver this analytical power in different contexts due   to its ability to cope with (or better said  its need for) extremely   large datasets and the granularity of analysis. For the mining   of highquality  structured supervisory data  more convention  al machine learning techniques are typically applied. To mine   high  frequency   low  quality  “big  data”  sources   Googlelike   deep  learning  and  neural  network  techniques  are  applied    which cope with these data due to their representation learn  ing abilities.     Below  the state of play in three use cases of machine learning   is  being  discussed   the  modeling  of  credit  risk   detection  of   fraud and money laundering  and the detection of conduct risk   and abusive behavior within financial institutions.    THREE USE CASES    Credit risk and revenue modeling  Since the early 2000s  an extensive academic literature on the   use of machine learning methods to model credit risk has de  veloped.  To  give  just  a  few  examples   Angelini  et  al.  (2007)   apply a neural network approach to model SME credit risk on     21  Ibid.    64    THE CAPCO INSTITUTE JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL TRANSFORMATIONMachine Learning  A Revolution in Risk Management and Compliance?    a small dataset of Italian SMEs. Auria and Moro (2008) assess   company  solvency  using  support  vector  machines   and  find   that  they  produce  more  accurate  outofsample  predictions   than  existing  techniques.  Khandani  et  al.  (2010)  apply  gen  eralized classification and regression trees (CART) to a large   dataset  of  a  commercial  bank  to  build  consumer  credit  risk   models.  These  combine  traditional  credit  factors   such  as   debttoincome  ratios   with  consumer  banking  transactions    which greatly increases the predictive power of the model.     FIs have traditionally used linear  logit  and probit regressions   to  model  credit  risk  for  capital  requirements   stresstesting    and  internal  risk  management  procedures.22  Recently   many   have  started  to  experiment  with  the  application  of  machine   learning methods to improve financial risk predictions. Unsu  pervised methods are typically used to explore the data  while   regression  and  classification  methods  (trees   support  vector   machines) can predict key credit risk variables as probability   of default or lossgiven default. Banks normally have extensive   records of loanlevel data to serve as inputs.     Banks have sometimes also experienced that machine learn  ing  can  be  hard  to  apply   as  methods  can  be  complex  and   models sensitive to overfitting the data. Thereby  the quality of   data within banks is not always fit enough for advanced statis  tical analysis  while banks are not always able to consolidate   the data from across the financial group  among others  due to   inconsistent data definitions across jurisdictions and the use of   multiple systems. Nonparametric and nonlinear approaches   (support vector machines  neural networks  and deep learning)   and ensembles are so complex that they are practically “black   boxes” that are hard  if not impossible  for any human to un  derstand and audit from the outside. That makes these models   hardly  useful  for  regulatory  purposes   such  as  the  develop  ment  of  internal  models  in  the  Basel  Internal  RatingsBased   approach. Financial supervisors typically require risk models   to be clear and simple in order to be understandable and veri  fiable and appropriate for validation by them.    That  does  not   however   rule  out  the  use  of  machine  learn  ing  to  optimize  parameters  and  models  with  a  regulatory   function.  Linear  and  simple  nonlinear  machine  learning  ap  proaches can be applied and still perform better than similar   nonmachine learning approaches. Machine learning can also   be applied to select variables and optimize parameters in ex  isting   linear  regulatory  models.  Khandani  et  al  (2010)  stress   that CART (tree) models produce easily interpretable decision   rules  whose  logic  is  clearly  laid  out   despite  their  nonlinear   character. Indeed  there have been examples already of banks   applying machine learning in a regulatory context. In a public     example  Citigroup hired an external vendor to build a revenue   forecasting model for the 2015 CCAR exercise.23    Fraud  One  area  in  which  machine  learning  has  been  applied  for   more  than  a  decade  and  with  significant  success  is  the  de  tection of credit card fraud. Banks have equipped their credit   card  payments  infrastructures  with  monitoring  systems  (so  called workflow engines)  which monitor payments for poten  tial  fraudulent  activity.  Fraudulent  transactions  can  then  be   blocked in realtime. The fraud models used by these engines   have been trained on historical payments data.    The  high  frequency  of  credit  card  transactions  provides  the   large  datasets  required  for  algorithm  training   back  testing   and  validation.  Furthermore   since  banks  are  able  to  verify   unambiguously which transactions were fraudulent and which   were not  they can construct clear historical data with relevant   fraud  and  nonfraud  labels  to  train  classification  algorithms.   The  historical  transaction  datasets  showcase  a  wide  variety   of predetermined features of fraud  which distinguish normal   card usage from fraudulent card usage  ranging from features   from transactions  the card holder  or from transaction history.     The  detection  of  money  laundering  and  terrorism  financing   through payments systems stands as a contrast to machine   learning’s  longstanding  record  in  credit  card  fraud.  Many   banks  are  still  relying  on  conventional  rulesbased  systems    which  focus  on  individual  transactions  or  simple  transaction   patterns. These systems are often unable to detect complex   patterns of transactions or obtain a holistic view of transac  tions behavior on payment infrastructures. Due to their coarse   selection methods  the number of false positives created by   these  systems  is  substantial.  As  a  result   significant  human   capacity is required for the assessment of alerts and filtering   false  positives  from  actual  suspicious  observations.  In  addi  tion  impediments to data sharing and data usage  as well as   longestablished  regulatory  requirements   have  complicated   innovation in the AML/CFT area.24    22  In a probit model  the dependent variable is binary (can only take two values); in a     logit model  the dependent variable is categorical.    23  Ayasdi  “CCAR stress test ” http //bit.ly/2m5n4y2  undated; and “After yesterday      CCAR less stressful for Citigroup ” March 6  2015  http //bit.ly/2mmbfph    24  See the IIF’s forthcoming report on the use of “regtech for AML” and submissions     to FATF and the BCBS for more information on data sharing issues in AML/CFT   on www.iif.com.     65    THE CAPCO INSTITUTE JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL TRANSFORMATIONMachine Learning  A Revolution in Risk Management and Compliance?    Machinelearning systems have the potential to improve de  tection of money laundering activity significantly  due to their   ability  to  identify  complex  patterns  in  the  data  and  combine   transactions  information  at  network  speed   with  data  from   many  other  sources  to  obtain  a  holistic  picture  of  a  client’s   activity.  Indeed   these  systems  have  already  been  shown  to   bring false positives down significantly.25     However  application so far in the AML space has lagged for   several  reasons.  First   money  laundering  is  hard  to  define.   There is no universally agreed definition of money laundering   and financial institutions do not receive feedback from law en  forcement agencies on which of their reported suspicious ac  tivities have turned out to be money laundering. It is  therefore    more difficult to train MLdetection algorithms using historical   data   because  an  incidence  of  money  laundering  typically  is   not  firmly  established.  As  a  secondbest   FIs  are  optimizing   ML detection algorithms using lowerlevel suspicious activity   reports as a depending variable for classification – using clas  sification between alerts that the bank could classify as false   alerts  and those that moved on to be submitted as SARs to   law enforcement agencies.     Unsupervised learning methods are also applied to AML/CFT   as they “learn” relevant patterns from the data by clustering   transactions  or  client  activity.  This  yields  additional  insights    since laundering methods take all kinds of form and develop   on a continuous basis.     An example of such unsupervised learning is clustering. Clus  tering requires large datasets where it can automatically find   patterns within the data without the need for labels. Cluster  ing works by identifying outliers as points without any strong   membership in any one cluster group  thus finding anomalies   within  subsets  of  the  data.  In  AML   clustering  is  one  of  the   methods used to group together data; using other analytics    such as topological data analytics and dimensionality reduc  tion  machine learning can reduce the significant amounts of   false positives often associated with alternative methods.     Surveillance of conduct and market abuse in   trading  A third area in which machine learning is increasingly being ap  plied within financial institutions is the surveillance of conduct   breaches  by  traders  working  for  the  institution.  Examples  of   such breaches include rogue trading  benchmark rigging  and   insider trading – trading violations that can lead to significant fi  nancial and reputational costs for FIs. In the last couple of years    automated systems have been developed that monitor the be  havior of traders in multiple ways and with increasing accuracy.    The  capabilities  of  the  first  generation  of  these  surveillance   systems were limited to monitoring trading behavior  and only   through assessing single trades. However  the improved abil  ity of machine learning approaches to identify large  complex   patterns in data has allowed a new generation of systems to   analyze entire trading portfolios. These systems are also able   to link trading information to other behavioral information of a   trader   such  as  email  traffic   calendar  items   building  check   in and check outtimes  and even phone calls. Technologies    such as natural language processing (typically based on deep   learning) and text mining (which can be based on several learn  ing algorithms26)  have made those sources machinereadable   and suitable for automated analysis. The outputs of the trading   behavior and communications of one or multiple traders are   then integrated and compared to a profile of “normal” behav  ior. When a trader’s behavior or trading performance deviates   from what is deemed normal  the system will send an alert to   the FI’s compliance team.    There are several challenges to applying machine learning in   this  space.  First   there  are  typically  no  labeled  data  to  train   algorithms on  as it is legally complex for financial institutions   to share the sensitive information on past breaches with devel  opers. Supervisory learning approaches are  therefore  hard to   apply. Second  a surveillance system needs to be auditable for   supervisors and for compliance officers  and needs to be able   to explain to a compliance officer why certain behavior has set   off an alert. For systems that are entirely based on machine   learning  that can be difficult due to the “black box” character   of learning approaches. In order for an alert to be interpreta  ble and actionable for compliance teams  it should ideally be   linked to detection of a specific kind of behavior  rather than   based solely on a statistical correlation in the data.     These  issues  can  be  addressed  at  least  partly  by  founding   the  learning  system  on  a  behavioral  sciencebased  model    which incorporates human decisions and behavioral traits. In   a way  such a model addresses the lack of explanatory power   of machine learning approaches. Any alerts from the system   will be based on deviations it has identified from the model.   However  the inclusion of machine learning approaches on top   of the model creates a feedback loop in the system through   which it can adapt to evolving behavior  and “get to know” a     25  Adamson  D.  2016  at “Machine learning – the future of compliance?” panel     discussion at Sibos conference  September 28    26  Bholat et al.  2015.    66    THE CAPCO INSTITUTE JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL TRANSFORMATIONthe detail with which data can be analyzed and outcomes pre  dicted. Unsupervised approaches allow for exploration of data   without a dependent variable. Running algorithms thousands   of times on training data and combining models improves their   predictive power while limiting overfitting and maintaining an  alytical granularity.    Such improved  often automated  analytical capabilities allow   FIs to gain better insights in business processes such as lend  ing   risk  management   customer  interaction   and  payments.   With  ever  more  data  produced  in  these  processes   machine   learning can discover richer  more complex patterns and rela  tionships as in the analysis of transactions or credit risk  or by   connecting different datasets to draw more accurate overar  ching conclusions  as in the monitoring of conduct breaches.    Second  the application of machine learning approaches with  in  the  financial  sector  is  highly  contextdependent.  Ample    highquality data for training or analysis are not always avail  able in FIs. More importantly  the predictive power and granu  larity of analysis of several approaches can come at the cost of   increased model complexity and a lack of explanatory insight.   This  is  an  issue  particularly  where  analytics  are  applied  in  a   regulatory context  and a supervisor or compliance team will   want to audit and understand the applied model. Fortunate  ly  simpler machine learning approaches do exist  combining   nonlinear analysis with simplicity. Indeed  vendors of machine   learning analytics in finance typically aim to combine machine   learning’s depth of insight with model simplicity  or add fac  tor models to improve the auditability of their products. As it   seems  there is an algorithm for every problem.    Machine Learning  A Revolution in Risk Management and Compliance?    trader as it ingests more data. That is a crucial difference with   previous rulesbased systems  which are unable to tailor their   surveillance methods to changed probability distributions and   correlations. Consequently  these systems are typically based   on more conventional types of machine learning  which can be   audited and explained more easily than complex types  such   as neural nets and deep learning.    A practical barrier to the implementation of automated surveil  lance systems is the fragmentation and complexity sometimes   found in FI’s IT systems. To gain a perspective on a trader’s   behavior  surveillance systems require information from many   sources  which are likely to be found in different systems that   can be mutually incompatible or slow to deliver.    CONCLUSION     Machine  learning  and  artificial  intelligence  are  big  topics  in   many  fields  of  business  these  days   including  the  financial   services  sector.  FIs  are  looking  to  more  powerful  analytical   approaches  as  they  need  to  manage  and  mine  increasing   amounts of regulatory reporting data and unstructured data    either for compliance purposes or in order to compete effec  tively with other FIs and FinTech’s. There seems to be no as  pect  of  the  FI  business  model  that  is  not  impacted  in  some   way by machine learning and artificial intelligence  it could im  prove  insights  into  client  preferences   risk  management   the   detection of fraud  and conduct breaches  and automate client   support or allow for automated identity verification when cou  pled with biometrics.    This article has given an introduction to the machine learning   field and has discussed several cases of application within fi  nancial  institutions   based  on  discussions  with  IIF  members   and  technology  vendors   credit  risk  modeling   detection  of   credit  card  fraud  and  money  laundering   and  surveillance  of   conduct breaches at FIs. Two tentative conclusions emerge on   the use of machine learning in the financial sector – tentative    because the field is developing fast and many FIs are still ex  perimenting with machine learning in some spaces.    First  machine learning comprises a range of statistical learn  ing tools that are generally able to analyze very large amounts   of data while offering a high granularity and depth of analysis    mostly for predictive purposes. The ability of some approaches   to infer nonlinear relationships and to conduct data analysis   without making assumptions about the shape or form of the   relationship between variables (i.e.  nonparametric) increases     67    THE CAPCO INSTITUTE JOURNAL OF FINANCIAL TRANSFORMATION