here  in file  Mexico’s Nascent Fintech Offers   Promise  Faces New Rules  By Michael Perez    F inancial technology in Mexico has     increased rapidly. The number of   fintech startups rose 40 percent on     a yearoveryear basis to a total of 334   as of September 2018.1    Mexico's fintech sector originally     focused on expanding financial access   through mobile payment applications    but entrants are spread across an array   of financial segments and offer a mix of   services (Chart 1).2    Although the sector remains rela  tively small  36 percent of Mexicans   who are active online have adopted   fintech  according to the accounting   firm and consultancy EY.3 The share   exceeds the average global adoption   rate of 33 percent.    A separate study shows that 60 per  cent of Mexican individuals are active   online  compared with 77 percent in   the United States.4    Fintech firms—specializing in tech  nologically enabled financial service   innovation—use computing power    artificial intelligence  mobile telecom  munications and cloudbased systems   to provide financial services.5     The services include electronic pay  ments and remittances  crowdfunding    automated loan applications  and asset   trading. Some fintech firms compete   directly with traditional banking and   financial institutions  while others   partner with existing institutions.    A survey of Mexican fintech firms     reveals that the majority have business   models aimed at reaching financially   excluded markets—those with limited   or no access to basic financial services   such as checking and savings accounts   (Chart 2). Consumers in these mar  kets are chiefly “underbanked” and   “unbanked” individuals  as well as   small businesses (11–50 employees)   and mediumsized enterprises (51–250     employees) lacking relationships at   established banks.    A smaller share of fintech firms focus     on providing businesstoconsumer   products—online lending and credit  scoring services—for banked custom  ers and businesstobusiness solutions   such as crossborder business payment   platforms for large firms. Still others   deal in products for banked small and   mediumsized enterprises.    Fintech products are generally easier   to access relative to traditional banking   alternatives for those outside the main  stream  who may potentially realize   financial inclusion. The fintech sector   benefits from comparatively stream  lined business models  greater ability to   develop products for specific custom  ers and less regulatory oversight.6    Greater financial inclusion comes     with challenges  especially cyber risks    which are inherent with high intercon  nectivity in diverse environments where   participants often function with a de  gree of anonymity. For example  most   fintechs leverage internet access to   collect client data and provide services    creating an opening for hackers looking   to steal funds or customer identities.  Moneylaundering concerns also   exist given drug cartels’ presence in   Mexico. Moreover  because fintechs   operate with minimal oversight relative   to banks  the lack of consumer protec  tions is a concern  especially in the   event of firms failing.    Mexico’s financial regulators re    sponded in 2018 with regulations that   establish a framework for the authori  zation and supervision of fintech firms    particularly those focusing on online   lending and payments. Moreover  of  ficials seek to incentivize collaborative   relationships to allow innovation to   occur as regulations are developed.    }    ABSTRACT  The number   of financial technology   startups in Mexico   has rapidly increased    promising to expand   financial services to   a large portion of the   unbanked population.   Officials are hopeful new   regulations will aid the   industry's development.    12    Southwest Economy • Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas • Fourth Quarter 2018Fintechs Seek Traction    The majority of Mexican fintechs are   venturecapital startups.7 More than 85   percent are less than five years old  and   about 12 percent fail annually. Over half   of Mexico’s fintech firms employ fewer   than 10 people  while only 8 percent   have more than 50 employees. The   value of fintech transactions in Mexico   is expected to total US$36 billion in   2018  representing 7 percent of com  mercial banking assets and 14 percent   of commercial loans. Fintech volume is   projected to reach $68 billion by 2022    assuming growth at the current rate.8  Traditional financial institutions     are entering the sector through direct   investments in fintech companies  con  sulting  and development of fintechlike   platforms such as mobile banking ap  plications. For example  BBVA Bancom  er  Mexico’s largest commercial bank    purchased Openpay  a Mexican fintech   startup that offers electronic payment   applications for businesses.9 The bank   said it would launch a $250 million fund   that will focus on early to latestage   fintech investment opportunities.10  Mexican banks’ growing fintech     presence reflects the banks’ desire to   enter new markets and offer new prod  ucts as well as the fintech firms’ need   for funding and access to payment   systems. Fintech originally sought to   unbundle banking through digital dis  intermediation. However  fintech firms   cannot accept traditional deposits    making it difficult for them to attract   cheap and stable funding. As a result    they generally rely on banks for their   financial support and customer base.   Fintech firms gain access to banks’   payment systems and financial data   through these partnerships.    The blurring lines between fintech     and traditional finance sectors present   numerous regulatory challenges  par  ticularly related to financial stability.   As the interconnectivity between banks   and fintechs increases  so do the risks   for contagion. For example  fintech   lender losses could spill over to banks   funding the firms.    Accurately assessing the financial  stability implications is challenging   given the limited availability of official     CHART    1    Mexico Fintech Industry Diversifies  Expands into Multiple Segments    Number of firms per sector  80    70    60    50    40    30    20    10    0    2016  2017  2018    Lending    Enterprise  financial    Personal  financial    management    management    Crowdfunding    Insurance    Enterprise  technologies  for financial  institutions    SOURCE  Finnovista Radar 2018; author's calculations.    CHART    2    Mexican Fintechs Primarily Engage   in Unbanked  Underbanked Markets     7%    12%    54%    27%    Unbanked/underbanked consumers & SMEs  Businesstoconsumer  Businesstobusiness  Banked SMEs    NOTE  SME refers to small and mediumsized enterprises.  SOURCE  Finnovista Radar  2018.    and privately disclosed fintech opera  tions data. Moreover  a lack of inter  nationally accepted guidelines or best   practices renders regulatory frame  works fragmented across countries.   Given the level of uncertainty regard  ing fintech vulnerabilities  there exist   material risks that regulators have yet   to realize or understand. For example    numerous cases of disappearing   crowdfunding receipts have been   reported in Mexico.    Inclusionary Opportunities  Costs  Financial system development  es    pecially inclusion  remains a challenge   in Mexico. In a reversal of prior trends    the share of the adult population with   a bank account fell between 2014 and   2017. Lack of required funds  high   costs and distrust are the main contrib  utors to the decline (Chart 3). How  ever  the rise of alternative financial   arrangements  such as those fintechs   offer  could also play a role.    13    Southwest Economy • Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas • Fourth Quarter 2018CHART    3    Bank Account Ownership Down in Mexico   amid High Costs  Lack of Trust    Top reasons for not having a bank account (percent)    45    40    35    30    25    20    15    10    5    0    Insufficient    funds    Service prices    Trust    Bank proximity    Documentation    issues    SOURCE  World Bank  Global Findex  2017.    Banks tend to focus on existing cli    ents  for whom they consolidate finan  cial service offerings and make larger   loans. As a result  fewer Mexicans   access formal credit and instead seek   out lessreliable  unregulated channels   for accessing financial products (such   as payday loans) via informal arrange  ments among friends (tandas in Span  ish) and loan sharks.    Mexico’s microbusinesses and small   and mediumsized enterprises (SMEs)   face similar issues accessing formal   finance. The majority of Mexico’s enter  prises are microbusinesses and SMEs   operating in the country’s informal   sector  leaving many of them without   access to key financial services.     These businesses account for 52   percent of Mexico’s gross domestic   product (GDP) and 72 percent of its   employment  though most are ineli  gible to receive credit from commercial   banks.11 There are indications that   Mexico’s recent financial reforms are   helping boost lending to smaller enter  prises. Still  the base from which those   improvements occur is small.12    While banking penetration remains   low for consumers and smaller enter  prises  the diffusion of technology is on   the upswing—a necessary condition   for the expansion of fintech. Cellular   phone penetration is high  bolstered by     structural reforms designed to increase   competition in telecommunications.  An estimated 75 percent adults re    port having access to a mobile phone—  up from 69 percent in 2016—and 42   percent of those phones are smart   devices.13 Meanwhile  mobile and   internet subscription rates are trending   higher (Chart 4).    The delivery of financial products     through fintech comes at an added cost   to customers. For example  fintech firms   specializing in online lending can  more   easily than banks  serve marginalized   consumers without imposing credit    balance and collateral requirements.    These firms gauge borrowers’ credit  worthiness using unconventional mod  els and algorithms before assessing   relatively high interest costs that make   up for high default risk.14 Conversely    the unconventional borrower screen  ings and significant financial burdens   on borrowers may increase default   rates and ultimately reduce confidence   in the sector.     Moreover  fintech’s increasing reli  ance on the internet renders consum  ers subject to cybersecurity attacks and   identity theft risks. Financial education   is another concern because users must   feel comfortable using financial tech  nologies  be able to identify issues and   understand what recourse is available     14    if something does go wrong. Chal  lenges specific to Mexico’s rural areas   include a lack of electricity to power   mobile phones and computers  spotty   network coverage and a limited regula  tory presence to provide consumer   education and legal protection.    Laying Regulatory Groundwork  Regulators recognize challenges     accompanying the benefits of wider   fintech adoption. These considerations   prompted passage of a comprehensive   fintech law in 2018  making Mexico one   of the first countries to craft legislation   exclusively dedicated to the sector.15    The law seeks to provide legal     security to fintech consumers  trigger   greater competition in financial mar  kets  combat money laundering and   fraud in accordance with international   standards and regulate transactions   involving digital assets and platforms.16  The law identifies key fintech institu  tions and rules for their authorization    regulation and supervision.17 The   institutions—primarily crowdfund  ing platforms and electronic payment   services—first receive an initial consent   to operate from an interagency com  mittee comprised of two members each   from the Ministry of Finance and Public   Credit  the Bank of Mexico  and the   Banking and Securities Commission.   The Banking and Securities Commis  sion provides final operational approval.    Fintechs must remit funds they re    ceive to deposit accounts in approved   banks and must obtain special dispen  sation to receive foreign funds. Each   institution is subject to capital require  ments  and the value of transactions   sent via online payment is capped.     The law also lays out rules to facili    tate the exchange of data and promote   innovation. It encourages the sharing   of financial consumer data between   banks and fintechs through public   application programming interfaces—  platforms that aggregate consumer fi  nancial data without violating financial   secrecy regulations.18    The law also provides fintechs with     regulatory sandboxes—testing grounds   for new business models not protected   by existing regulation. Sandboxes     Southwest Economy • Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas • Fourth Quarter 2018permit fintechs to experiment with   innovative products in a controlled   environment with limited oversight by   regulators  who in turn can develop   regulations around fintech products   while directly observing them in action.    Additionally  the law created the     Financial Innovation Group  a forum   for startups  banks and public sector   entities to promote fintech.    The Road Ahead    Mexico’s traditional banks have     historically struggled to offer financial   inclusion. Private sector credit as a   share of GDP is among the lowest in   Latin America. Fintech  while relatively   small  has the potential to deepen   Mexico’s financial system while offer  ing improved access to credit for the   unbanked and underbanked.    Regulators have formally acknowl  edged the importance of fintech and   implemented prudential regulations   that seek to balance stability with the   freedom to innovate in order to ensure   the sector can serve markets effective  ly. Fintech’s growth will depend on the   sector adhering to the new standards   while innovating and providing value   to consumers.    Perez is a financial industry analyst in   the Surveillance and Industry Analysis   Department at the Federal Reserve   Bank of Dallas.    Notes  1 Brazil is Latin America’s largest fintech hub  while   Colombia is the third largest. See “Mexico Exceeds   the Barrier of 300 Fintech Startups and Reinforces   Its Position as the Second Most Important Fintech   Ecosystem in Latin America ” Finnovista  2018  accessed   Nov. 9  2018  www.finnovista.com/actualizacion  finnovistafintechradarmexico2018/?lang=en.  2 See “Mobile Payments Promise to Improve Financial   Accessibility in Mexico ” by Michael Perez  Federal   Reserve Bank of Dallas Southwest Economy  Third   Quarter  2016  www.dallasfed.org//media/documents/  research/swe/2016/swe1603g.pdf.  3 This survey was based on more than 22 000 online   interviews in 20 international markets. Fintech users   are defined as individuals who have used two or more   fintech services in the past six months. See “EY FinTech   Adoption Index 2017  The Rapid Emergence of FinTech ”   Ernst & Young  www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/    CHART    4    Mexican Mobile and Broadband Subscriptions   Exhibit LongTerm Upward Trend     Index  2008 = 100    250    200    150    100    50    0  2008    Broadband subscriptions  Cellular subscriptions    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016    2017    Reserve Bank of Dallas Southwest Economy  Fourth   Quarter  2015  www.dallasfed.org/~/media/documents/  research/swe/2015/swe1504f.pdf.  13 See “Smartphone Ownership on the Rise in Emerging   Economies ” by Jacob Poushter  Caldwell Bishop and   Hanyu Chwe  Pew Research Center  June 2018  www.  pewglobal.org/2018/06/19/2smartphoneownership  ontheriseinemergingeconomies.  14 For example  rates on loans from online lenders can   range from 180.0 percent to 417.6 percent annually.  15 Mexico follows in the steps of the U.K.  which was   the first country to develop comprehensive regulatory   standards and policies specifically for fintech.  16 See “Decree Enacting the Financial Technology   Institutions Law (‘Fintech Law’) ” by Ramón Bravo    Héctor Cuevas and Alfredo Chavero  Deloitte Legal    March 2018  www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/  mx/Documents/legal/2018/FintechLawDecree.pdf.  17 See note 8  pp. 18–20.  18 See “Mexico Financial Technology Law Passes Final   Hurdle in Congress ” by Sheky Espejo and Julia Love    Reuters  March 1  2018  www.reuters.com/article/  usmexicofintech/mexicofinancialtechnologylaw  passesfinalhurdleincongressidUSKCN1GD6KX.    SOURCE  World Bank.    eyfintechadoptionindex2017/$FILE/eyfintech  adoptionindex2017.pdf.  4 International Telecommunication Union statistics    2016  accessed Nov. 9  2018  www.itu.int/en/ITUD/  Statistics/Pages/stat/default.aspx.  5 See note 2.  6 “FinTech and Financial Inclusion ” World   Bank  slide 6  http //pubdocs.worldbank.org/  en/877721478111918039/breakoutDigiFinance  McConaghyFintech.pdf.  7 See note 1.  8 See “Reporte Nacional de Inclusión Financiera”   (“National Financial Inclusion Report”)  Consejo   Nacional de Inclusión Financiera (National Financial   Inclusion Council)  no. 9  2018  p. 99  www.cnbv.gob.  mx/Inclusi%C3%B3n/Documents/Reportes%20de%20  IF/Reporte%20de%20Inclusion%20Financiera%209.pdf.  9 See “BBVA Advances Its Fintech Strategy with the   Acquisition of Openpay ” by María del Carmen Peña   Álvarez  BBVA  April 2017  www.bbva.com/en/bbva  advancesfintechstrategyacquisitionopenpay/.  10 “BBVA Shuts InHouse Venture Arm  Pours $250M   into New Fintech VC Propel Venture Partners ” by Ingrid   Lunden  TechCrunch  February 2016  https //techcrunch.  com/2016/02/11/bbvashutsinhouseventurearm  pours250mintonewfintechvcpropelventurepartners.  11 See “Pymes (small and mediumsized enterprises) ”   by Comisión Nacional para la Protección y Defensa   de los Usuarios de Servicios Financieros (National   Commission for the Protection and Defense of Service   Users)  www.condusef.gob.mx/Revista/index.php/  usuariointeligente/educacionfinanciera/492pymes.  12 See “Mexico Development Bank Lending Rises   Following Financial Reforms ” by Michael Perez  Federal     15    Southwest Economy • Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas • Fourth Quarter 2018