here  in file  72    ISTVÁN PRÁGAY    PAYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    István Prágay    ABSTRACT    Placed within a historical perspective  this study reviews the interplay between   the evolution of computer technology and cashless payments. Taking this as its   starting point  it presents the technological trends and principal regulatory initia  tives inﬂ uencing the development of payment services.  For businesses  endtoend automation of the ﬁ nancial supply chain  clear excep  tion processing rules  and the enrichment and semantic clarity of ﬁ nancial mes  sages  all provide tangible beneﬁ ts. Digitisation enables small and mediumsized   enterprises (SMEs) to streamline their business processes and connect to the en  terprise resource planning (ERP) systems of large corporate partners.   For consumers  24/7 instant payments oﬀ er the perspective of a cashless existence    since both individuals and micro enterprises will be able to pay by credit transfer   with ease. Th  e retail trade will evolve to a simpler checkout process  where the   purchase and payment phases will not be separated.   Digitisation needs to be employed in Hungary in the ﬁ ght to reduce cash pay  ments and enhance ﬁ nancial inclusion. To achieve this  it is essential for consum  ers to perceive the practical advantages of cashless payment compared to cash    and to be able to manage their personal ﬁ nances more easily.  Rapid changes demand continuous learning on the part of consumers and micro   enterprises  to raise the level of their ﬁ nancial literacy.  Th  is study seeks to answer the question of how Hungary can transform from a   follower to a trendsetter in payment services  and thence a winner in the process   of ﬁ nancial digitisation. Extensive collaboration among payment service provid  ers and cooperation across economic sectors  together with consistent and co  ordinated application of payment schemes and standards  may lay the basis for   superior services.    JEL code  O33    Keywords  digitisation  payment services  PSD2  ﬁ nancial literacy    AYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    73    1 THE CONCEPT AND CURRENT STATE OF DIGITISATION    Digitisation in its initial sense means the recording and storage of data  text  and   analogue sound and video recordings in digital form. By this deﬁ nition  digitisa  tion is contemporaneous with digital data storage.   In  the  meantime   a  fresh  deﬁ nition  of  digitisation  has  emerged   signifying  a   changing lifestyle – as well as economic and administrative activities – due to   the general spread and use of interconnected mobile digital devices. Digitisation   leads to a rollback in paperbased administration  the removal of spatial and tem  poral limits  automation  and the acceleration of communication and business   transactions. People communicate remotely not only with other people  but also   with machines  and can receive increasingly ﬂ exible and more personalised ser  vices.  Digitisation transforms payment services and payment ﬂ ows  not only because   it opens up more and more opportunities for payment service providers to oﬀ er   their services in new ways  but also because our entire environment and way of   life is transformed as a consequence. New devices and interactions trigger the   creation of new payment solutions.  Technological progress is the cause and starting point for the digital transfor  mation   with  the  impetus  for  the  transformation  determined  by  the  following   factors 1   a)  customer expectations  devices  capability  and aﬀ ordability of services;   b) the  innovative  capacity  of  payment  service  providers   strength  of  market     competition  and suﬃ  cient eﬀ ective demand that ensures a return; and    c)  the quality of the regulatory environment (including multilateral agreements     and standards)  as well as the infrastructure.     Th  e principal new technological trends which we foresee in the ensuing decades    and which are relevant in the context of payment services  are outlined below.    1.1 Mobile devices and broadband network connections    Th  e runaway market success of smartphones with mobile internet capability is   attributable  to  their  aﬀ ordable  price   highspeed  broadband  connections   and   touchscreen simplicity. A pocket computer  telephone  music player  camera and   microphone  all contained in a single device  is an attractive prospect. Th  e utility   of such devices is further enhanced by the open nature of manufacturers’ applica  tion programming interfaces (APIs) within operating systems  enabling any de    1      Santamaría  J. (2018)  Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep and ePayments?    74    ISTVÁN PRÁGAY    veloper to distribute their applications through online stores with a global reach   (Google Play  Apple App Store).   Th  e case of UBER is a good example of the use of APIs by developers. Th  e mobile   taxi ordering application was created with comparatively modest core develop  ment; nevertheless  the product itself is astonishingly rich in functions since ex  ternal geolocation (providing the location of devices and vehicles)  maps  naviga  tion  notiﬁ cation and payment services  accessed via APIs  have been smoothly   integrated into its development. Th  e environment that favours UBER also laid the   foundations for the birth of the FinTech phenomenon.     1.2 Touchscreen technology  card emulation  biometrics  augmented reality    Th  ese technologies permit customers (and in the case of electronic signatures  the   service provider as well) to be unequivocally authenticated  and to place orders   in a quick  convenient and secure manner. Th  e mobile wallet may take the place   of traditional payment cards  and even the physical wallet. Wearable devices and   biometrics  meanwhile  enable identiﬁ cation and authentication of orders even   in situations where other devices are not available. Augmented reality oﬀ ers the   physical  experience  of  purchasing  without  the  consumer  needing  to  rise  from   their armchair.    1.3 Blockchain technology    Blockchain technology arranges transactions in blocks  authenticates these blocks    links the blocks into block chains  and ensures publication of records and their   preservation in a replicated  shared ledger  which allows easily manageable databas  es and transaction systems to be created  replacing costly and complex infrastruc  ture and intermediaries. Cryptocurrencies have demonstrated the suitability of the   technology  within  their  own  sphere  of  application.  Traditional  payment  service   providers have nothing to do with cryptocurrencies  since cryptocurrencies – like   electronic versions of the cowry shells of old – can be transferred directly between   owners. Blockchain technology has nevertheless aroused the interest of ﬁ nancial   service providers  since it may prove suitable for partially or wholly replacing inter  bank infrastructures. To put it another way  simple schemes may take the place of   infrastructures that can currently be operated only at signiﬁ cant cost. In the case of   cryptocurrencies  the authenticity of records is veriﬁ ed not by an entity (operator)    but by speciﬁ ed participants in the network  and once they validate a transaction    it becomes common knowledge and cannot be altered. Th  e bitcoin scheme has no   speciﬁ ed owner or administrator. Other blockchain applications may demand the   designation of a scheme owner enjoying general public conﬁ dence.    AYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    75    Intensive eﬀ orts are already under way with a view to successfully applying this   revolutionary technology beyond cryptocurrencies  although many remain scep  tical regarding the scalability of transaction records based on blockchains.    1.4 Artifi cial intelligence    Artiﬁ cial intelligence  particularly using quantum computers that overcome the   physical limitations of today’s computers  promises to replace telephone customer   services with messaging robots (chatbots) and even talking computers.2 Th  e ma  chines behind the chatbots familiar today exchange brief messages in the same   way two human beings “chat” with each other.    1.5 Th  e Internet of Th  ings  data mining and data analysis (Big Data)    Th  e Internet of Th  ings (IoT) comprises a network of webconnected sensors  of   which there may be several in a household or shop  that help to respond ﬂ exibly   to our needs  even generating automated transactions. Th  e application of sensors   in  machinetomachine  (M2M)  communication  will  signiﬁ cantly  increase  the   number of transactions and thus payments  providing valuable data to payment   service providers about the consumption habits of their customers.   Data mining and data analysis help banks better understand the needs of their   customers  to enable them to present ﬂ exible  timely and tailormade oﬀ ers.    2 THE DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF PAYMENT SERVICES   SO FAR  FROM A HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE    Provision of ﬁ nancial services entails the administration of ﬁ nancial contracts    including the management and processing of data. As accounting factories  banks   and ﬁ nancial service providers in general pioneered the practical application of   computer technology  so that as early as the 1960s and 1970s  the ﬁ nancial services   sector had already begun to employ computer technology at the operational level.   Companies with large  geographically extensive networks were initially able to   improve the eﬃ  ciency of their operations and cash management by centralising   their treasury operations. Beginning from the 1970s  enterprise resource planning   (ERP) systems started to evolve.    2    From 2016  Bank of America introduced – and has since been continuously developing – its “Erica”   digital telephone customer service  or chatbot  and customers are already able to chat with “Erica” on   their mobiles. Parallel with this  the bank downsized its human resourceintensive call centre.     76    ISTVÁN PRÁGAY    Th  e computerisation of payroll accounting had farreaching consequences  en  abling  the  disbursement  of  salaries  and  wages  through  personal  checking  ac  counts or giro accounts. Th  is change relieved employers of the costly administra  tive burden of cash payments. Retail banking  until then typically conﬁ ned to   the functions of a savings bank (issuing passbooks and savings certiﬁ cates) and   granting simple loans  became a more complex business. Computer technology   helped streamline public utility fee collection  enabling fees to be debited directly   to employees’ checking or giro accounts. Automatic teller machines (ATMs) were   designed to allow wage earners quicker and simpler access to their money. Th  is   invention necessitated the issuing of magnetic stripe cards to provide access to   cash in the form of an ATM card  which could also be used as a cheque guarantee   card facilitating identiﬁ cation of the holder when paying by cheque.   Th  e development of the payment function of bank cards began with charge cards   for business entertainment and travel expenses  and the clearing and settlement   mechanisms  that  were  developed  for  this  purpose  were  then  adopted  for  con  sumer credit and debit cards. By the 1980s and 1990s  cash withdrawal cards and   cheque guarantee cards had evolved into debit cards tied to payment accounts    thereby also gaining a payment function. Th  e acceptance of payment cards – fol  lowing the era of voice authorisation  paperbased blacklists and card imprinters   used to ﬁ ll out purchase receipts – then shift ed to electronic POS terminals. From   the 1990s  payment accounts could be accessed via the internet  initially by means   of messages composed  sent and received by client programs  and later via direct   internet banking access and smart (chip) cards  which started to supersede mag  netic stripe cards.  As payment cards have become smart  the authorisation of transactions between   any two points on the planet takes place within seconds. Smart chips provide   strong protection against fraud  while NFC wireless technology and mobile wallet   applications enable contactless use of cards  as well as the emulation of payment   cards on telephones or portable devices such as bracelets or smart watches.  Payment service infrastructures and communications have accelerated  as real  time  transactionbytransaction processing gradually supersedes previous batch   data processing.  Somewhat delayed and spiced with some distinctive local ﬂ avour  this schemati  cally outlined evolution has taken place – and is continuing to take place – in   Hungary. In this country  wage payments in cash persisted right up until the ﬁ rst   half of the 1990s. A standardised interbank clearing and settlement infrastructure   has been in place here only since the mid1990s. Hungary’s backwardness in the   area of payment services has not been entirely eliminated to this day. Our indi  cators with respect to both payment account ownership and the use of internet     AYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    77    banking are  for the time being  more modest than the average among EU mem  ber states (although no worse than justiﬁ ed by our general level of development).   Th  e tectonic transformations of recent decades were favourable for payment ser  vice providers in a number of respects. Consumer banking supplies stable fund  ing for banks and information on consumers’ ﬁ nancial behaviour  the latter pro  viding a basis for credit scoring and the anticipation of payment diﬃ  culties. Th  e   handling of payments and the management of payment accounts have become   signiﬁ cant and stable sources of revenue for payment service providers.    3 PRINCIPAL REGULATORY INITIATIVES  INFLUENCING THE FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF PAYMENT SER  VICES    3.1 Th  e second Payment Services Directive (PSD2)    Directive 2007/64/EC on payment services (PSD1) targeted integration in the ﬁ eld   of payment services in Europe. Th  e second Directive (EU) 2015/2366 (PSD2)  be  sides further strengthening consumer protection rules and expanding the range   of transactions falling within its scope  tightens regulations on the authentication   of customers and payment orders within the context of digitisation.   Under the main regulation  authentication must be based on at least two of the   following three elements     – knowledge (something only the user of the service knows);    – possession (something only the user possesses); and    – inherence (something that is a personal or biological characteristic of the user).   Full application of the regulation would present a stiﬀ  challenge to service pro  viders  as stringent security requirements may conﬂ ict with the desire not to in  convenience customers. Th  e Regulatory Technical Standards (RTS) created under   the mandate of the directive determine in detail the exemptions from the main   regulation.   Th  e directive – also taking into account the emergence of the FinTech business   – obliges accountservicing payment service providers to provide access to the   payment accounts they service for the following   a) issuers of payment instruments (transaction authorisation without blocking);  b) payment initiation service providers (payment order inputs);  c) account information service providers (account and payment data).    78    ISTVÁN PRÁGAY    Besides  payment  institutions  holding  a  special  licence  and  specialising  in  this   area under the directive  the latter two roles may be ﬁ lled by accountservicing   payment service providers. Detailed rules for access to payment accounts by pay  ment initiation and account information service providers are likewise contained   in the abovementioned RTS.  Th  e RTS for strong customer authentication and common and secure open stand  ards of communication will be applicable aft er an 18month preparatory period   from September 2019.    3.2 Th  e strategy for development of fi nancial literacy    In December 2017  the Hungarian government adopted its comprehensive  sev  enyear national strategy for improving the ﬁ nancial literacy of consumers. Th  e   strategy establishes a common framework for running the ﬁ nancial literacy pro  jects of various public sector stakeholders  such as the National Bank of Hungary   (MNB)  Ministry for National Economy (NGM)  State Audit Oﬃ  ce (ÁSZ)  and   Ministry of Human Capacities (Emmi)  while maintaining their integrity. Th  e   approach enables the national project to identify areas which – in the absence of a   comprehensive strategy – previously constituted blind spots  and to divert funds   and capacities to ﬁ lling these gaps in knowledge.   Th  e  development  of  consumers’  capacity  for  selfprotection  complements  con  sumer  protection  eﬀ orts   since  material  prosperity  in  large  part  depends  on   whether consumers make wellfounded or unrealistic ﬁ nancial decisions appro  priate to their life situation. Th  e strategy places great emphasis on education with  in the school system  but adults  the elderly and disadvantaged also each receive   special attention. Th  e acquisition of digital skills  proﬁ ciency in digital ﬁ nancial   services  and understanding of the risks in cyberspace are all important consid  erations in the implementation of the strategy.  Th  e strategy covers a wider scope than its title suggests  and is in reality four   strategies in one  extending beyond the promotion of ﬁ nancial literacy to em  brace   a) a plan for the further development of (prior) ﬁ nancial advisory services  since   it is prudent  before undertaking a longterm ﬁ nancial obligation  to take ad  vantage of independent ﬁ nancial advice;    b) the ﬁ ght against cash (including  for example  the NGM’s POS terminal instal    lation programme); and    c) a project to promote ﬁ nancial inclusion of groups of the population who at   present primarily or exclusively use cash  enabling them to take advantage of   ﬁ nancial services.    AYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    79    Th  ese projects complement each other  since better ﬁ nancial capability facilitates   ﬁ nancial  inclusion   while  the  availability  and  familiarity  of  payment  services   promotes  the  reduced  use  of  cash.  In  developing  countries   the  key  focus  is  on   ﬁ nancial inclusion or the ﬁ ght against cash  with the promotion of ﬁ nancial lit  eracy complementing the core programme. In Hungary  in keeping with the prac  tice in developed countries  the focus is on the improvement of ﬁ nancial literacy.  News reports suggest that the action plan of the strategy is due to land on the   government’s desk in March 2018.    3.3 Th  e introduction of instant payments    Th  e  instant  payments  service  for  domestic  forint  payments  is  an  initiative  of   the MNB (the central bank) and is being implemented under its direction. Th  e   planned launch date of the service is 1 July 2019. Instant payment means much   more than merely accelerated transaction execution or availability beyond bank   opening hours. On the one hand  execution will be very rapid and ﬁ nal  with the   beneﬁ ciary receiving the money within a few seconds. On the other hand  auxil  iary services (e.g. payment requests  proxy account identiﬁ ers) will ease payment   initiation. Instant interbank settlement allows for this channel to be used not only   for transfers of small amounts  but also for relatively larger transfers. In Hungary    for example  it will actually be obligatory to execute nonbatched transfer orders   under HUF 10 million in value through this scheme.  Th  e beneﬁ ciary of an instant transfer will not need to make a note of the IBAN   number of their account  as they may link their own telephone number or email   address to the account  so that money may be remitted to the payment account   based on proxies (telephone number  email address) usually found on any busi  ness card  as proxy account identifi ers. Th  e payer need not even take the trouble to   ﬁ ll in the amount or accompanying information since the beneﬁ ciary may make   these data available in a message  or in optically readable form.    Th  ese changes may render physical wallets redundant  as payments may be made   by credit transfer from a mobile wallet to another person or contractor (even to a   repairman or street vendor)  while payment may also be initiated through a POS   terminal. While the starting point is payment between individuals  eventually   the solution would become applicable in any domestic forint payment situation.  Th  e service may create a new digital ecosystem. Th  e more convenient  simple and   rapid the solutions that are developed and tailored to consumer habits  the greater   the degree to which instant payment may promote the diminishing use of cash.  More and more banks in Hungary are making the instant payment service avail  able in euros as well.    80    ISTVÁN PRÁGAY    4 THE FINTECH PHENOMENON    Digitisation has reduced the physical and ﬁ nancial limits of market entry  while   at the same time increasing the expectations of consumers. Th  e viability of new   business models  the facilitation of online and mobile access to ﬁ nancial services    and the availability of venture capital ﬁ nancing  have all awakened the entrepre  neurial spirit in the ﬁ eld of ﬁ nancial services. FinTech has also contributed to   the creation of new business models  for example crowdfunding. In the area of   payment services  virtual currencies change hands during the payment process   without the need for a system of ﬁ nancial intermediaries.   An example of digitisation of the traditional payment business model is provided   by the TransferWise international money transfer service. Based on the conveni  ent  but comparatively costly method of sending money via cash transfer  Trans  ferWise has essentially adopted the internal settlement operating model of money   transfer service providers  but employs electronic payment instead of cash pay  ments  thus enabling a potentially signiﬁ cant price advantage.   Th  e majority of FinTech ventures operating in the area of payment services are   concerned with access to payment accounts or services facilitating card payment.   Few FinTech companies can expect rapid success in enticing customers away from   traditional payment service providers  since developing the full range of services   of such providers or acquiring a new customer base is a slow and costly process;   for this reason  they choose instead to specialise  thereby gaining themselves the   opportunity to cherrypick the activities they favour the most.   For their part  traditional payment service providers are not letting the appear  ance of FinTech enterprises go by without a response  on the one hand experi  menting with innovative developments of their own  and on the other hand ac  quiring promising FinTech ventures or supporting their growth as investors or   partners. FinTech incubators  meanwhile  enable traditional service providers to   identify marketable innovations at the initial phase.  Th  e FinTech revolution has raised the level of customer expectations  with con  sumers expecting payment service providers to oﬀ er them the experience familiar   from online stores.   For independent FinTech enterprises  payment services represent a regulated area   as the PSD2 enters into eﬀ ect. Th  e introduction of instant payments opens up   widereaching market opportunities for domestic FinTech ventures.    AYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    81    5 THREE CONDITIONS FOR THE SUCCESS OF DIGITISATION    We  expect  digitisation  to  enhance  reliability   security  and  accessibility  of  ser  vices. Th  e primary goal  therefore  is to maintain the uninterrupted provision of   services. Furthermore  it is important for digital solutions to satisfy the real needs   of customers  and for payment services to genuinely enhance the prosperity of cit  izens and help businesses strengthen their competitiveness. Finally  via targeted   public policy measures and selfregulation  a healthy regulatory and market en  vironment must be created  in order to allow for bestofclass services to emerge   amid strong market competition.    5.1 Confi dence  security  uninterrupted service    Digitisation is boosting the number of connections between digital devices and   the customer interfaces of payment service providers by orders of magnitude. Th  e   emergence of thirdparty payment service providers adds further to the complex  ity  of  these  connections.  Th  e  elimination  of  paperbased  solutions   combined   with conspicuous growth in turnover and the mass of data being managed  make   expectations  with  respect  to  the  uninterrupted   secure  execution  of  electronic   payments a fundamental requirement  alongside full enforcement of data pro  tection criteria. Th  e loss of public conﬁ dence in digital payment solutions would   arrest  or even reverse  the further digitisation of payment services.   Every stakeholder has tasks in the interests of maintaining security. It is highly   recommended that payment service providers study and incorporate into their   own practice3 the guidelines on the security of internet payments of the Europe  an Banking Authority  as well as the recommendations of the European Central   Bank relating to mobile payments and access to payment accounts.  Cybersecurity is also served by application of the MNB’s recommendation 7/2017   (VII. 5) on the defence of IT systems  as well as by fulﬁ lment of the requirements   prescribed for service providers operating critical elements of the infrastructure.    5.2 Recognition of customer expectations    Th  is chapter constitutes only a list of examples  containing observations in the   specialist reference sources  rather than the results of any systematic survey.     KOVÁCS  L. – DÁVID  S. (2016)  Fraud Risk in Electronic Payment Transactions. Journal of     3   Money Laundering Control  Vol. 19  No. 2  2016  pp. 148–157    82    ISTVÁN PRÁGAY    5.2.1 Consumers  Th  e main impetus behind digitisation is to satisfy heightened consumer expecta  tions. Consumers demand a fundamentally secure  rapid  convenient and trans  parently priced service. Simplicity in the execution of transactions is an essential   expectation.   In unexpected situations  consumers want assistance and intelligible  rapid an  swers.   To ensure transparency of their personal ﬁ nances  consumers expect intelligible    detailed followup information on their account balance and transactions. Th  ey   also want to be able to search their account history quickly and for a longer pe  riod into the past. Besides a summary of transactions by legal title  they also want   to be able to look up individual entries in detail. Full transparency of payments   cannot be attained without structured  meaningful transaction information. If   contained within the transaction information  the account history can preserve   in electronic form copies of merchant invoices related to transactions  and other   documents such as warranties  technical speciﬁ cations  instruction manuals  or   contact details of vendors or service providers.  Consumers who are happy to have their payment cards virtualised to their mo  biles will be at least as happy to have their customer loyalty cards and accounts   virtualised.    5.2.2 Retailers  Retail sales cover a broad spectrum from hypermarkets through online stores to   small shops  but retail service microenterprises also belong in this category. Th  ese   businesses expect customer payments to be eﬀ ected quickly  that payment is pref  erably irrevocable  and that the value of the purchase is credited to their payment   account as soon as possible. Th  e retailer is also not indiﬀ erent to the existence and   rate of merchant fees  the cost of the infrastructure for accepting means of pay  ment  and the burden of its operation.   Retailers  and particularly online stores  have an interest in easing checkout and   eliminating the hassle of payment authorisation. A conspicuous payment phase   oﬀ ers consumers an opportunity for deliberation  making them more liable to   abandon their purchase than those who have consented to the debiting of their   account in advance.    5.2.3 Public utility service providers  Public utilities expect due bills to be paid according to a regular schedule with the   lowest possible transaction costs. Indication of late payment by the consumer in ad  vance (particularly if default interest is charged) is more favourable than an aborted     AYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    83    payment transaction. For public utility service providers  invoice matching is of   overriding  importance   and  consequently  they  generally  insist  on  initiating  the   payment process themselves  and that they receive payment data as a supplement to   each money transfer in the original form suitable for automated matching.    5.2.4 Businesses  Businesses  want  to  connect  electronic  banking  services  directly  to  their  ERP   and other systems  but favour standard solutions over bankspeciﬁ c connections.   Th  ey want open  standardised APIs to be oﬀ ered. As participants in the ﬁ nan  cial supply chain (on the documentation and payment side of the physical sup  ply chain)  they want to enjoy the beneﬁ ts of endtoend automation of payment   initiation and subsequent transaction notiﬁ cation  in close coordination with the   management of their other ﬁ nancial documents  such as invoices. By conducting   matching in close to real time  they aim to maintain uptodate records  promot  ing both an enhanced standard of service for their customers and better ﬁ nancial   management.   Besides  instant  matching   businesses  expect  streamlined  exception  processing   (such  as  returns   recalls   refunds   etc.)  in  a  predictable   preferably  automated   fashion. Resources and time devoted to business administration can best be rede  ployed to the company’s regular and marketing activities.   Small and mediumsized enterprises greatly beneﬁ t if ERP suppliers incorporate   functions that enable automatic processing of payments into their basic products.    5.2. 5 Payment service providers off ering account information services  Payment service providers that oﬀ er account information services (which may   also  be  accountservicing  payment  service  providers)  can  also  be  regarded  as   customers  in the sense that it is in their interests to have access to the broadest   possible  range  of  key  information  through  open  API  connections  with  banks    since the quality of consolidated information depends on the quantity and qual  ity of raw data. Th  ese service providers are essentially able to operate in symbiosis   with accountservicing banks. It is important for them to be able to connect with   accountservicing payment service providers under uniform conditions  avoiding   the necessity of involving specialised API intermediaries.    5.3 Regulatory and market environment    It is the task of players on the competitive market to develop eﬃ  cient payment   services able to respond to the expectations of customers. Th  e dynamics and qual  ity of services oﬀ ered on the market are determined not only by eﬀ ective demand     84    ISTVÁN PRÁGAY    and the system of ﬁ nancial intermediaries  but also by other structural condi  tions  elements of which include a solid legal background; ﬂ exible ﬁ nancial in  frastructures; wellfunctioning  extensive communication infrastructure; quality   of ﬁ nancial standards; and quality – and practical enforcement – of bilateral and   multilateral agreements between payment service providers regarding the execu  tion of payment transactions.  Among numerous positive developments  it can be mentioned that    – legislators have adopted the PSD2 directive fully and by deadline;   – implementation of the instant payment service is proceeding according to the     plans of the National Bank of Hungary;     – a  strategy  for  the  promotion  of  ﬁ nancial  literacy  has  been  adopted    implementation  of  which  will  contribute  to  breaking  down  barriers  to  the   growth of cashless payment services and reducing cash in circulation; and     – international card companies are bringing numerous cuttingedge solutions     to Hungary.    Not every piece of the big jigsaw puzzle is in place either on the international level   or in Hungary. Although it is diﬃ  cult to draw up an exhaustive list of the miss  ing pieces  several factors can be identiﬁ ed by taking into account international   blueprints  namely    – Th  e  Single  Euro  Payments  Area  (SEPA)  project  standardising  payment   instruments  and  schemes   regulating  customertocustomer  payment   procedures. Some noneurozone  EEA countries have adjusted their domestic   payment schemes to the SEPA benchmark.     – Participation  in  international  ﬁ nancial  standardisation   helping  to  avoid     derogations in the subsequent application of standards.     – Domestic     standardisation     activity     complementing     international     standardisation  and facilitating implementation of international standards.     – Establishment  of  practical  cooperation  spanning  sectors   expedient  for  the     automation of the ﬁ nancial supply chain.     6 CONCLUSION    Digitisation provides an excellent opportunity to upgrade payment services to a   higher level. Th  e wave of digitisation carries with it the potential to reduce the use   of cash  make cashless payments ubiquitous  promote ﬁ nancial inclusion  make   personal ﬁ nancial management as well as corporate cash management more con  venient and transparent  and ease the administrative burden on enterprises.    AYMENT SERVICES AND DIGITISATION    85    Cashless payments are generally executed in a chain of ﬁ nancial messages  oft en   through a series of intermediary payment service providers and infrastructures.   For this reason  deepening of cooperation within the ﬁ nancial sector  as well as   between the ﬁ nancial and other branches of the economy  carries special signiﬁ   cance  from issues of security to open access  and from the meticulous deﬁ nition   of business and operational rules to the semantic enrichment of payment mes  sages.     REFERENCES    Capgemini – BNP Paribas (2017)  World Payment Report 2017.  GonzálezPáramo  J. M. (2017)  Digitalisation and Banking Sector – Seminar „Tomorrow’s Bank  ing and How Central Banks Have Developed in last 15 Years” (transcription of speech). Helsinki    2017. 01. 16.    European Banking Federation (2017)  Driving the digital transformation – Th  e EBF blueprint for   digital  banking  and  policy  change  (http //www.ebfdigitalbanking.eu/images/EBF_Digital  Report.pdf).    GPFI (2014)  Th  e Opportunities of Digitizing Payments. A report by the World Bank Development   Research Group  the Better Th  an Cash Alliance and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to the   G20 Global Partnership for Financial Inclusion.    Kemppainen  K. (2017)  Payments becoming increasingly real time and less visible. Bank of Finland      Bulletin 2/2017.    Kovács  L. – Dávid  S. (2016)  Fraud risk in electronic payment transactions. Journal of Money Laun    dering Control  Vol. 19  No. 2  pp. 148–157.    Lipis Advisors (2014)  Th  e Future of Corporate Payments – Payments Innovation Alliance. White     Paper (http //www.wipro.com/documents/thefutureofcorporatepayments.pdf).  McKinsey on Payments (2013)  Forging a path to payments digitization. No. 16  March.  Santamaría  J. (2018)  Do androids dream of electric sheep and epayments? (előadás). #TIPSapp     event  Frankfurt  2018. 02. 06.    Strategy  for  Development  of  Financial  Literacy  [Pénzügyi  tudatosság  fejlesztésének  stratégiája]   http //www.kormany.hu/download/8/c5/51000/Pénzügyi20tudatosság20stratégia.    (2017)    pdf.    World Economic Forum (2017)  Beyond ﬁ ntech  A Pragmatic Assessment Of Disruptive Potential   in Financial Services. Part of the Future of Financial Services series  prepared in collaboration   with  Deloitte   August  (http //www3.weforum.org/docs/Beyond_Fintech__A_Pragmatic_As  sessment_of_Disruptive_Potential_in_Financial_Services.pdf).    