here  in file  R3 Reports    Can Blockchain Make   Trade Finance More   Inclusive?  Alisa DiCaprio  Benjamin Jessel    1Contents    R3 Research aims to   deliver concise   reports on DLT in   business language   for decisionmakers   and DLT hobbyists   alike.  The reports   are written by   experts in the space   and are rooted in   practical   experience with the   technology.    Visit R3’s Wiki here.   Visit R3's Public   Research here.    Introduction 1    1.  2. Today’s trade finance network structure    enables persistent shortfalls 2    3. Digitalization improves efficiency  blockchain    unlocks trust without centralization 3    4. Does blockchain technology have features    that can narrow trade finance gaps? 4    5. Conclusion 9    Disclaimer  These white papers are for general information and  discussion only and   shall not be copied or redistributed outside R3 membership. They are not a full   analysis of the matters presented  are meant solely to provide general guidance and   may not be relied upon as professional advice  and do not purport to represent the   views of R3 Holdco LLC  its affiliates or any of the institutions that contributed to these   white papers.  The information in these white papers was posted with reasonable   care and attention.  However  it is possible that some information in these white   papers is incomplete  incorrect  or inapplicable to particular circumstances or   conditions. The contributors do not accept liability for direct or indirect losses resulting   from using  relying or acting upon information in these white papers.  These views are   those of  R3 Research  and associated authors and do not necessarily reflect the   views of R3 or R3’s consortium members.     Can Blockchain Make Trade Finance More Inclusive?    Alisa DiCaprio  Benjamin Jessel    March 20  2018    Abstract    There is little doubt that blockchain technology will change global trade. The question   however  is how it will impact some of the most intractable issues in trade ﬁnance. Last year   U.S.$15.5 trillion of merchandise exports were transported around the world. Up to 80% of  global commerce requires trade ﬁnance to provide liquidity and risk mitigation. However   ineﬃciencies in trade ﬁnance today mean that many applications go unfunded. This U.S.$1.5  trillion trade ﬁnance gap is widest in emerging markets and for small and mediumsized enter  prises. Eﬀorts to address these shortfalls have gained limited traction due to the decentralized  nature of trade. In this paper  we review the design of enterprise blockchains to explore how  changing the architecture of trade ﬁnance could impact the drivers of trade ﬁnance gaps. By  grounding our analysis in the technical architecture of a live  enterprise blockchain platform   we aim to provide a tangible discussion around the technology. Applying blockchain technol  ogy to trade ﬁnance – regardless of the top of stack application – will directly impact the ﬂow  of information  compliance challenges  and proﬁtability in ways that can contribute to a more  inclusive trade ﬁnance structure.    1    Introduction  Trade ﬁnance reduces risk in the process of trade. Given the number of parties involved   intermediation enables buyers and sellers to transact more eﬃciently across borders  currencies  and  languages. The transaction volumes are huge. In 2017  U.S.$15.5 trillion of merchandise exports  were transported around the world across sea  air  rail and road (World Trade Organization  2017).  Up to 80% of this global trade requires ﬁnancing.    However  the same characteristics that make trade ﬁnance safer also introduce friction and  inﬂexibility. This has resulted in two persistent problems in the sector. First  trade ﬁnance is  not easily accessible to everyone and in every region. Shortfalls in supply have persistently pooled  in frontier markets and among small and mediumsized enterprises (SMEs). This has direct  implications for the ability of emerging markets to capture the beneﬁts of trade driven growth.    Scalability is a second problem. Many believed that digitalization was the answer to the lack  of visibility  low proﬁt margins  and “know your customer” (KYC) concerns that drive shortfalls.  While digitalization has changed the way individual entities in trade ﬁnance process information   these beneﬁts have not scaled globally into a connected network. If each node in the trade ﬁnance  network maintains its own proprietary source of information – as it does today – digital docu  mentation needs to be checked and reentered at every step of the process. Having many diﬀerent  centralized systems globally create localized data centers that do not interoperate with a broader  network.    1    Digital improvements to nondigital infrastructure can only go so far. A fundamental reor  ganization of the system is required to impactfully change trade ﬁnance enough to address the  shortfalls and gaps.    Over the past two years  we have witnessed a wholly diﬀerent solution emerge. Blockchain  technology presents an open technology layer that enables programs to connect and scale 1. The  decentralized architecture of a blockchain can serve as a better foundation for interoperation along  a global and intermediated process like trade ﬁnance.    Trade ﬁnance is inherently decentralized; trying to match centralized architecture to this de  centralized process has led to the siloes and problems we face today. By changing the structural  foundation of trade ﬁnance  the technology presents an opportunity to narrow gaps in an uncon  ventional way. Having a decentralized  yet trusted and secure record of information shared between  relevant parties can reduce frictions while maintaining the eﬃciencies of intermediated trade.    In this paper  we take a design approach to explore whether blockchain could rearchitect trade  ﬁnance to make it more inclusive. This approach is unusual in that we map the reasons for trade  ﬁnance gaps directly to the features of the technology itself. Our conclusions are thus independent  of the speciﬁc use case. They apply equally to letters of credit or open account or trade credit  insurance. They are applicable in jurisdictions from Brazil to Thailand.    While public blockchains like Bitcoin are the most familiar to the casual reader  we focus in this  paper on enterprise blockchains. The reason is that private permissioned blockchains  built with  the requirements of companies in mind  are most appropriate for the particular characteristics of  trade ﬁnance. Trade ﬁnance is highly regulated  crossjurisdictional  and involves multiple parties  conﬁdentially exchanging information. In this paper  we will outline advantages that are general  to most enterprise blockchain systems  such as IBM’s Fabric and Ethereumbased forks 2  while  also mentioning features particular to R3’s Corda 3.    As blockchain technology moves from proofofconcept to live pilot and beyond in 2018  we can  oﬀer insight into whether the technology will ultimately narrow trade ﬁnance gaps. We explore  the impact of blockchains on three fundamental causes of trade ﬁnance gaps  compliance costs   proﬁt  and information. Our objective is to show that the beneﬁts of blockchain technology in  trade ﬁnance can extend beyond driving operational eﬃciency to actually narrowing market gaps  in frontier markets and among SMEs.    2 Today’s trade ﬁnance network structure enables persistent    shortfalls  Trade is conducted through either bankintermediated riskmitigating instruments  such as  letters of credit  or directly between buyers through open account. While most global trade ﬂows  are covered by open account  companies in Asia and the Middle East are heavy users of letters  of credit  with 77% of export letters of credit originating in Asia alone. Risk parameters vary  depending on when ﬁnance and/or risk mitigation is provided  and diﬀer between preshipment  and postshipment ﬁnance.    Ineﬃciencies in trade ﬁnance means that nearly U.S.$1.5 trillion of demand for trade ﬁnance  is rejected by banks (Asian Development Bank  2017). The consequence in many cases is that  those trades do not happen. A practical example  in a survey of 1 336 ﬁrms  respondents report  that in 60% of cases when their application for trade ﬁnance is rejected  they fail to execute the  transaction (Asian Development Bank  2017).    2.1 Trade ﬁnance data is centralized to maintain security    In trade ﬁnance today  each party to a transaction maintains their own account. These are  repeatedly shared  checked for discrepancies  veriﬁed  and updated. This process introduces three  1All blockchains are distributed ledgers  but not all distributed ledgers "batch" information together into a chain of  blocks. For simplicity  the term blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT) are used interchangeably in  this paper.  2An enterprise fork is an adaptation of a public cryptocurrency codebase to make the technology more suitable for  companies.  3Corda is unique among enterprise blockchains in that it operates a pointtopoint transaction model. This means  that only participants involved in a given transaction or exchange of data are privy to the data involved in those  transaction. In our example  each node transacts on behalf of their clients and shares only the information that is  needed to complete the transaction.    2    structural features that contribute to gaps. First  the cost of verifying and checking is high. This is  because each individual entity in the transaction needs to ensure that the documents they receive  are compliant with regulatory requirements. Entities also need to conﬁrm the information that  they expect to see about the transaction – are the goods in the purchase order the same as the  goods in the invoice?    Second  there is a dependence on correspondent banking limits. Banktobank (correspondent)  relationships are central to the current trade ﬁnance architecture. Yet thousands of correspondent  relations have been severed over the past few years due to cost and regulatory factors. This  dependence on correspondent banking networks limits the ﬂexibility of trade ﬁnance.    Local or community banks  which are most likely to have banking relationships with SMEs   may not have the necessary correspondent relationships to facilitate an international trade trans  action. One global bank reports that the cost of doing due diligence on a bank was of the order  of U.S.$75 000 in 2015. When global banks began shedding correspondent relationships in recent  years  it was mainly emerging markets that were cut oﬀ (International Monetary Fund  2016).    Finally  the use of the cloud  while increasing  is limited in transaction banking. Deploying  new digital solutions in banks is slow due to the need to get security approvals. Historically  the  standard has been ringfencing data and not allowing any integration. However  given recent high  proﬁle hacks  it is clear that centralized data stores are vulnerable regardless of how carefully the  data is fenced in.    2.2 Today’s architecture is characterized by gaps in emerging markets    and SMEs    The way data is shared in trade today exacerbates the inherent challenges of emerging markets.  In 2017  the ADB estimated a global trade ﬁnance gap of U.S.$1.5 trillion dollars. Furthermore   40% of global unmet demand for trade ﬁnance was pooled in Asia Paciﬁc and Africa.    However  the problem is about more than geography. SMEs in every jurisdiction face shortfalls  in access to trade ﬁnance. Banks report that 74% of their rejections go to SMEs. These companies  worldwide have reported the lack of trade ﬁnance as one of the major constraints to their businesses.  Globally  they are impacted by the higher cost of screening and higher interest rates. Credit  constraints on smaller exporters are higher than those faced by larger ﬁrms  to the point of reducing  the range of destinations for business or stopping the SME from exporting altogether.    3 Digitalization improves eﬃciency  blockchain unlocks trust    without centralization  When banks were surveyed on their reasons for rejecting trade ﬁnance proposals  their responses  fell into three main categories  lack of information  low proﬁt  and KYC concerns (Figure 2). The  single undercurrent to all of these causes is lack of visibility into the trade or the client  leading to  a “perceived risk” that is higher than what the bank is willing to accept.    Figure 1  Proposed and rejected trade ﬁnance transactions (by ﬁrm size  2017)    Source  Asian Development Bank    3    Figure 2  Reasons banks reject trade ﬁnance applications (% of rejections)    Source  Asian Development Bank    Digitalization has made important inroads in all of these areas. Regtech seeks to automate  KYC reporting  Fintech solutions create new sources of information with which to evaluate ﬁrms   and digitalization initiatives have focused on reducing the cost of trade ﬁnance. Each of these has  important potential implications for inclusion by disrupting pieces of the trade ﬁnance process.    Even as digitalization has sought to address parts of the problem  it has also exacerbated  its causes in other ways. As banks have implemented new digital solutions  there has been an  explosion of destination platforms. That is  the platforms do not interoperate with each other.  Digital solutions work as long as all parts of the trade are on the same platform.  In global  commerce  where a single trade may involve 20 entities  100 pages of documentation  and 5000  data ﬁeld interactions (Boston Consulting Group  2017)  siloed digital solutions make problems  worse.    Enterprise blockchains aim to resolve these diﬃculties with interoperation. There are two fea  tures of enterprise blockchains that allow them to retain the beneﬁts of decentralized systems  while  addressing the shortcomings of public blockchains for this use case. Enterprise implementations  of blockchain technology are better able to meet the data privacy requirements of international  trade  as they avoid public broadcast of all information to all parties (Hearn  2016) 4. Further   depending on the architecture  they can address the scalability limitations of public blockchain  systems (Buterin  2016).    4 Does blockchain technology have features that can narrow    trade ﬁnance gaps?  If todays trade ﬁnance architecture enables the persistence of gaps  does this mean that a  technology that promised to rearchitect trade ﬁnance will narrow them? There is a lot riding on  this contention  and some blockchain applications have focused speciﬁcally on this area. While we  hope that the trade ﬁnance applications built on blockchain platforms will accomplish this goal   the sheer scope of diﬀerent applications makes it diﬃcult to evaluate the potential disruption of  each claim.    In this section  instead of looking at the promise of blockchain applications  which is enormous   we look at the mechanics of the technology. Does the technology itself have or enable features that  address some of the reasons for trade ﬁnance gaps?    4No risk department would agree to having each node contain identical copies of the entire transaction history.  Even though there is some technology being introducted in public blockchain systems to address privacy concerns   the technology can be too immature for enterprises. In addition  often enterprises do not want information shared  with other parties  even if that information is “encrypted.”    4    By grounding our analysis in the technical architecture of a live  enterprise distributed ledger  platform  we aim to provide a tangible discussion around the technology of blockchain. Some of  these beneﬁts are inherently enabled by the blockchain platform itself  while others allow producers  of applications to drive the beneﬁts. We cover the three drivers from Figure 2  low proﬁtability   regulatory concerns  and information.    4.1 Low proﬁtability    Low proﬁtability comes from two sources  the bank’s cost of processing a transaction and  the expected revenue. SMEs will naturally provide a smaller expected proﬁt as their transaction  volume and frequency may be expected to be low.    The cost and time to process a trade transaction can be signiﬁcant due to the variety of actors  and steps that are involved. Much of the cost arises from delays  friction  and additional eﬀort  needed to handle trade data. This is underpinned by the fact that trade ﬁnance is a linear process  that is heavily reliant on paper documents. The paper documentation is carried from port to port  along with the cargo  checked  signed  faxed to the various parties  including banks  with very little  visibility of the whole process by any single participant. Manual checking is time consuming  and  can be error prone. Bottlenecks also occur frequently because no party has overall control over or  visibility into the full process.    Delays can have real cost implications. Take demurrage  a payable charge to the owner of a  chartered ship in respect of failure to load or discharge the ship within the agreed time. These  charges can add up to U.S.$150 per container per day (Czajkowski)  which may not seem like much   but when applied to a whole vessel  such as a Panamax ﬂeet ship  the cost can reach U.S.$750 000  per day of delay.    These costs are further exacerbated by distant markets  banks which lack direct correspondent  relationships  and small ﬁrms. For these entities  the time needed to execute a transaction  the  prevalence of errors and amendments  and the need to verify all parts of the transaction due to  the need to establish provenance of paperwork 5 contribute to low proﬁtability.    There are several technical elements built into enterprise blockchains that impact the cost  and time of processing. Steps are eliminated when relevant parties maintain the same version of  the truth. Having automatable processes will speed up steps that cannot be eliminated. Both  oracles and signatures (or multiple signatures) from trusted parties can trigger other events on a  blockchain  removing delays for information dependencies.    Blockchain features that can address proﬁtability are  (1) single truth layer  (2) automatable    processes  (3)  oracles  and (4) signatures  multiple signatures (multisig).    All of these features lead to the elimination of conﬁrmation steps as parties can trust that the    information that they see is the same as other parties.    One of the major cost multipliers in trade transactions is the passing back and forth of the  same documents multiple times. For example  there are typically 19 steps (without amendment)  in a letter of credit. By having a single truth layer  we can potentially eliminate seven of these  steps immediately.6    As one example  Figure 3 illustrates the sellers screen in an onledger letter of credit transac    tions. This is a snapshot of the key data forms that are included.7    In any transaction on the blockchain  there is a single source of veriﬁed data that is immutable.  As a result  all parties can have conﬁdence that the information on the screen is veriﬁed  and is  the same as what their counterparties see on their screens. The data is accurate and reliable from  the beginning.    Having a single source of truth shared between relevant parties reduces costs that are due to  errors associated with repetitive veriﬁcation. This will shorten the time to ﬁnancing because it  reduces information ﬂoat (the time until information is available) and increases real time visibility  of trade. Faster information transfer with fewer errors will reduce the additional costs associated  with riskier trades.    A second way that blockchain can address proﬁtability is by automating some steps that cur  rently have a long lag time. On Corda  ﬂows enable coordination from diﬀerent nodes to trigger    5Default is not the reason that cost and proﬁt is a problem. Default rates for trade ﬁnance are below 1%  and  recovery even then is on the order of 80% (ICC trade register). The problem of cost and proﬁtability is related to  paperwork and veriﬁcation and checking.  6Author’s calculations using a pilot version of a Letter of Credit on Corda.  7Screenshots are from the Corda Letter of Credit demo.    5    Figure 3  Status of diﬀerent orders shared with relevant parties    Source  R3    “transactions ” or updates to shared states between parties that are automated. Figure 4 illustrates  the ﬂows in a letter of credit trade lifecycle.    Oracles and third party signatures are two examples of inputs to a blockchain that can trigger  an automated process. An oracle is an agent on the blockchain that provides information to the  participants of one or more business networks. They source information from real world events   third party data providers  or other blockchain activities. An oracle can push information to a  business network either regularly or upon request  and is not party to a trade.    Oracles are meant to provide facts to business network participants. Figure 4 shows an example  where an electronic bill of lading (eBL) provider acts as an oracle in a trade transaction. In a trade  transaction  ownership of the goods changes throughout the process. The document of title –  in this case represented by an eBL – allows the bearer to take ownership. After the goods are  ready to ship  the shipper requests the carrier to draft a bill of lading. The shipper exchanges  the goods for the eBL from the carrier. The shipper then presents the eBL to the advising bank  in fulﬁlment of the documentary submission requirements of a letter of credit. Since each eBL is  associated with a unique title registry record  which is maintained by the oracle  the transfer of  title from the shipper to the advising bank only occurs after querying the oracle to get conﬁrmation  of the registry record number. This also introduces additional visibility into who owns the goods  throughout the process.    Figure 4  Flows between nodes on corda along trade ﬁnance lifecycle    Source  R3    A trusted third party may also provide signatures to a blockchain. For example  DHL may  send a pay out upon signature when goods have arrived at a certain port  triggering the next  process automatically  removing frictions. Once the physical cargo has been checked and the data  input into the system  an automated contract could instantaneously release the funds from the  seller’s bank to the buyer’s bank. This is one example of a smart contract  and a selfexecuting  transaction. This could signiﬁcantly reduce the delay between the checking of the cargo and the  ﬁnal release of funds.    6    Figure 5. Bill of lading timeline with title transfer    4.2 Lack of information (risk management)    Source  R3    A second driver of trade ﬁnance rejections is a lack of reliable information. This makes it    diﬃcult for stakeholders to accurately measure risk  a problem that is compounded for SMEs.    Where risk is the result of information asymmetries  blockchain can improve risk management.  It could enable us to answer questions like  can this SME perform  is it capable of delivering quality  goods/service in the timeframe stipulated in a contract  will it remain solvent for the duration of  its obligations?    Recording transactions on a blockchain leads to a treasure of metadata from which ﬁnancial  institutions could answer SME performance risk related questions reliably and eﬃciently. If all  transactions in an SMEs life are captured step by step through a blockchain  that information  could be organized to address a root cause of SME ﬁnance market gaps.    In addition  the ability to identify the legal entity of a participant in a transaction is fundamental  to eﬃcient trade ﬁnance. It can act as an organizational anchor – or a master key – from which  all other information can be hung. Corda uses X.500 distinguished names to identify participants.  To further improve transparency about network participants  many solutions then link to “legal  entity identiﬁers” (LEI).    An LEI is a 20 digit  alpha numeric code. It is connected to key reference information that  allows for the unique identiﬁcation of legal entities participating in ﬁnancial transactions. The LEI  veriﬁes  on an annual basis (i) who’s who; (ii) who owns whom; (iii) who owns what. The body  responsible for administering the LEI system is  itself  regulated by over 70 central banks around  the world.    An important beneﬁt of being able to organize data around entities with canonical identiﬁers  that are used universally across the globe  is that it becomes possible to develop a map that  charts out the history of all transactions performed across all participants. This becomes a very  powerful tool for reducing fraud  because all the parties involved in a trade are known and have  been validated.    4.3 Compliance (KYC concerns)    Regulatory oversight plays a critical role in the functioning of the global ﬁnancial system. Over    time  both the diversity of regulations and the size of sanctions ﬁnes have increased.    This relates to the third major driver of rejections for trade ﬁnance proposals – KYC and  money laundering concerns. The cost and complexity of regulatory compliance play an important  role in transactions costs. The problem for trade ﬁnance is that 25% of rejections are based on  KYC concerns.    Enterprise blockchains can address the uncertainty related to compliance via three features.  These include live information sharing through a regulator node  active regulation by requiring  attestations by third parties that have done KYC checks  and more data for retrospective analysis  that may facilitate more eﬀective regulation.    Beyond blockchain’s ability to enhance the reliability and eﬃciency of conducting KYC and  antimoney laundering due diligence  the technology can also address two related regulatory issues.  The ﬁrst is uncertainty by regulators. Because regulators only see a trade after it has occurred   their lack of insight shifts the burden of vigilance onto banks. The second is uncertainty by banks.    7    The regulatory environment is complex and not harmonized. Each bank needs to satisfy diﬀerent  levels of regulation.8    Blockchain features that can address regulatory compliance are  (1) notary functionality  (2)    regulator nodes  (3) attestations  and (4) audit trail.    4.3.1 Notary agreement protects against doubleinvoicing of the same state    Doubleinvoicing is a common concern in trade ﬁnance. It can occur in error where a transaction  is mistakenly counted twice  or in a fraudulent setting where a malicious actor intends to game the  process. This requires ﬁnancial institutions to spend time to validate all the transactions to prevent  instances of doubleinvoicing. Standard Chartered  for example  lost almost U.S.$200 million from  a fraud involving counterfeited paperwork  where diﬀerent banks and trading houses were holding  separate titles for the same metal at China’s Qingdao port in 2014.    Blockchain technology has the potential to address some of these fraudulent transactions. With  Corda  a notary ensures uniqueness of an invoice or payment. This has the potential to make  important inroads on the doublespending problem. Because a transaction is represented as a  particular state  it is mathematically impossible to reuse the same state more than once. That is   if a particular invoice has a certain number  the same asset literally cannot be sent to two banks  – it can only be used once  and the notaries will enforce this. While this does not protect against  people creating two separate invoices with diﬀerent numbers  banks can ensure that a certain state  is only used once if they are on the same application.    4.3.2 Live regulator oversight of particular identities or transactions    As regulations around trade ﬁnance continue to grow  the sanctions for violations have also  grown. According to FinCen data  the number of suspicious activity reports grew exponentially  from 1990 to 2013.  In addition  market participants have to generate compliance reports on a  regular basis for submission to the relevant regulators. Much of this work is still manual  which  leads to high overhead costs.    Enterprise level blockchains enable the addition of a speciﬁc type of entity into the transaction  that we refer to as a regulator node. This regulator node can be incorporated into the network   and it enables regulators to monitor transactions that occur on a realtime basis  but does not  give them the ability to change the transaction. This can reduce the need for manual regulatory  reporting  and can signiﬁcantly reduce costs.    Figure 6. Corda ﬂow with a regulator node    Source  R3    Blockchain addresses the cost and complexity of regulatory compliance in an unusual way.  While existing regtech solutions have focused on simplifying KYC  this is only one part of a    8In a recent informal survey of global banks  repondents each had a diﬀerent process for KYC in a supply chain  ﬁnance transaction.    8    complex problem. By allowing regulators to have direct insight into transactions  the reporting  process can become less burdensome by becoming incorporated into the transaction itself.    4.3.3 Signatures by third parties that have performed due diligence    On a blockchain network  trusted third parties can attest that a particular party is not nefarious.  Onboarding of a new corporation  or entity  could involve the signature of an entity that has done  due diligence.    4.3.4 More data can allow better retrospective analysis to make future projections    of criminal activity    Immutability of data refers to the fact that a state cannot be changed or modiﬁed after it has  been created. This creates a clear audit trail into the transaction  as historic states are stored and  can be accessed. It will be impossible to tamper with data  and data integrity can be maintained  at all times.    5 Conclusion    Trade ﬁnance gaps will not be resolved until trade ﬁnance changes. This kind of thinking is  not new. But the technology to make it happen is. Blockchain will impact how trade ﬁnance is  done. It will become safer  faster  and more secure as banks and corporates move trade onto the  blockchain.    Does this mean that blockchain will solve the trade ﬁnance gap? Not alone. As it spreads   its hard coded features will improve the potential for trade ﬁnance to be more inclusive and  available. To take full advantage of the beneﬁts that blockchain has to oﬀer in trade ﬁnance  we  need to consider three questions while designing top of stack applications  can outside providers  easily contribute data  does it follow or reuse existing standards and contracts  and will it improve  information and data ﬂow.    2018 is the year that proofofconcepts are moving into pilots and production. As we have  learned during the design phase  the problems in trade ﬁnance are going to be much harder to  solve than they look on the surface. As trade continues to evolve  it has become increasingly urgent  that ﬁnancial institutions are equipped to deliver not only the types of ﬁnancing that are needed  today  but the types of ﬁnancing that will be needed tomorrow.    9    References    Asian Development Bank (2017). Trade Finance Gaps  Growth and Jobs Survey. ADB Brief   No. 83. Retrieved from https //www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/359631/  adbbriefs83.pdf.    Boston Consulting Group & SWIFT (2017). Digital innovation in trade ﬁnance  have we  reached a tipping point?. Boston Consulting Group and SWIFT focus whitepaper. Retrieved from  https //www.swift.com/newsevents/news/digitalinnovationintradefinancehavewe  reachedatippingpoint_.    Buterin  V. (2016). Ethereum platform review. R3 Research Papers. Retrieved from R3    Internal Wiki.    Czajkowski  A. Demurrage  Detention  Per Diem. . . Oh My! 6 Tips to Avoid Additional  Charges. Shapiro. Retrieved from https //www.shapiro.com/demurragedetentionperdiem  ohmy6tipstoavoidadditionalcharges/.    Hearn  M. (2016). Corda Technical Whitepaper. Retrieved from https //docs.corda.net/    _static/cordatechnicalwhitepaper.pdf.    International Monetary Fund (2016). The Withdrawal of Correspondent Banking Relation  IMF Staﬀ Discussion Notes  SDN/16/06. Retrieved from    ships  A Case for Policy Action.  https //www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/sdn/2016/sdn1606.pdf.    World Trade Organization (2017). World trade and GDP growth in 2016 and early 2017.  World Trade Statistical Review  Chapter 3. Retrieved from https //www.wto.org/english/  res_e/statis_e/wts2017_e/WTO_Chapter_03_e.pdf.    10    Is  an  enterprise   ledger     using  distributed   build   services     infrastructure.      the  next  generation  of     software   technology     firm   to   financial     It     six     financial     continents.     institutions  and     R3's  member  base  comprises  over  80   regulators   global   largest   on   is   collaborative  consortium  of   in   financial  markets.   Consortium  members  have   access to insights from projects    research   regulatory  outreach    and professional services.    the   its  kind     Our team is made  of financial   industry veterans  technologists    and  new  tech  entrepreneurs    bringing   together  expertise   from   financial   markets   cryptography  and   digital currencies.     electronic     Is  an  open     financial  grade  distributed   records   manages   and   institutions’   perfect  synchrony  with  their  peers.     financial  agreements     source    ledger  that   executes   in     is     the  only  distributed     ledger   Corda   platform  designed  from  the  ground  up   to  address  the  specific  needs  of  the   financial  services   is  the   year  of  close   result  of  over  a   collaboration  between  R3  and   its   consortium  of  over  80  of  the  world’s   leading  banks  and  financial  institutions.    industry   and     