here  in file  Original Paper     Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80    doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON    Rural tourism development and financing in Romania    A supplyside analysis  Daniel BADULESCU1  Adriana GIURGIU2  Nicolae ISTUDOR3  Alina BADULESCU1    1Department of Economics  Faculty of Economic Sciences  University of Oradea  Oradea     Romania  2Department of International Business  Faculty of Economic Sciences  University of Oradea     Oradea  Romania  3Department of Agrifood and Environment Economics  Faculty of Agrifood and Environment    Economics  Bucharest University of Economic Studies  Bucharest  Romania    Abstract  For more than a century  and almost everywhere in the world  rural areas suﬀ ered a steady decline  due to the dec  rease of the real income from the agricultural activities  the lack of serious economic alternatives  and demographic issues.   Rural tourism could contribute to the rural sustainable development through small local businesses valorising the natural    cultural and ethnographic resources. However  most of them need the ﬁ nancial support from private creditors (banks). Th  e   surveybased research conducted among banks’ representatives has identiﬁ ed several strengths of small rural ventures  such   as the small scale and the associated risks  the endurance to external shocks  the openness to market opportunities  as well   as some of their weaknesses  e.g. a poor management experience  seasonality etc. We have also identiﬁ ed the actions nece  ssary to be performed by these ﬁ rms to attract ﬁ nancial resources from the banks’ side  i.e. the diversiﬁ cation of income   sources  the association and the adherence to recognized brands and maintaining a reasonable leverage ratio. It was found   that the bank’s size does not matter  but the nature of the bank’s capital does  the private domestic banks are more willing to   ﬁ nance such businesses. Th  e banks’ involvement in coﬁ nancing the EU projects could be a way to foster and strengthen the   rural businesses.  Key words  bank lending  ﬁ nancing constraints  rural development  rural tourism businesses    Rural development represents at present an issue of   great importance  both as the research theme and the   practical concern  especially to identify and promote   economic and social policies to ensure the “economic   convergence” of rural areas with urban areas  and to   empower the rural population. This problem is con  siderably more important for the Central and Eastern   European developing countries  where (according to   the Eurostat Regional Yearbook 2013) more than 39%   of the population lives in the predominantly rural   areas (compared to the 22.3% of the EU average)  and   where there are consistent discrepancies concerning   the level of the development  consumption  investment   etc. compared with the urban areas. Nevertheless    sustainable rural development cannot be achieved in   the absence of sustainable businesses  especially in   other activities and sectors than agriculture (given    as mentioned  the large proportion of the popula  tion living in rural areas and the large contribution     of agriculture to the GDP formation) (Jeníček 2011).   Among them  undoubtedly  rural tourism meets the   conditions of sustainable nonagricultural activities   and adequately addresses the considerable potential of   natural and cultural touristic resources in the region.  Unfortunately  the ventures operating in rural ar  eas  and particularly in tourism  face  overall  higher   difficulties in accessing finances compared to similar   urban businesses. They get less competitive financ  ing offers; there are few suppliers of funds and thus   fewer financial products and services adequate to local   particularities (Drabenstott and Meeker 1997). The   ruralbased ventures tend to rely mostly on small    local banks to finance their debts and often have a   little choice when searching for alternative sources   of the equity finance. In many cases  the gaps in   financial markets in rural areas are “more an expres  sion of a gap of the capacity and skills than a limited   access to capital” (Drabenstott and Meeker 1997 or     72    Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80     doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON  Drabenstott et al. 2003). In general terms  this kind of   SMEs prefer to work with the small traditional banks   and their relationship with the main (even the single   one!) bank tends to be longer than in the urbanbased   SMEs case (Carrington and Zantoko 2008).    This paper is aiming at investigating (by using a   surveybased research) the availability of the financ  ing institutions to adequately finance the small rural   businesses in tourism. The objectives of this paper   are  primarily  to assess the degree and specific ways   of the creditors’ involvement in financing ventures   operating in rural tourism  and to examine the cor  relation (if any) between the banks characteristics   (e.g. size  ownership) and their availability to finance   businesses in rural tourism. Secondly  we are inter  ested to find out (from the supply side perspective)   which are the main difficulties in the rural tourism   financing and to what extent these difficulties can   be mitigated.     RURAL TOURISM IN CENTRAL   AND EASTERN EUROPE COUNTRIES  FACTS   AND FIGURES     For over a century  industrialization  urbaniza  tion and globalization have exerted a tremendous   pressure on the rural space by eroding the social      Original Paper    economic and political importance of the rural ar  eas. During the last decades  in the context of a   constantly reducing weight of the rural population   and the agricultural activities in GDP and employ  ment  rural areas have to reinvent themselves and   to reshape their economic profile (Hron et al. 2009).   Consequently  many rural areas which are endowed   with the natural potential and/or cultural heritage    or simply presenting a nonaltered traditional envi  ronment  begin to address the increasing needs of   urban tourists. Rural tourism  as a form of sustain  able tourism  reconciles the conflicting interests   between the touristic flows  the destination and   the local communities  minimizes the environmen  tal and cultural ambience damages  optimizes the   travellers’’ satisfaction  maximizes the longterm   economic growth and balances the growth of tour  ism potential with the environmental conservation   needs (UNWTO 2011 or Bednaríkova and Doucha   2009). On the other hand  as the tourist potential of   rural areas differs and also the level of the general   development  investment  infrastructure and other   factors determining tourist development vary  the   result was the emergence and then the differentiated   development of the rural tourism areas.     Some figures are relevant  according to the European   Commission (Eurostat 2013)  the rural tourism in  frastructure is not equally distributed across the     Table 1. The share and the total number of bedplaces in hotels  campsites and other collective accommodation   establishments in the selected countries  by the urban–rural typology (2011)    Country    EU27   Bulgaria  Czech Republic  Hungary  Poland  Romania  Slovenia  Slovakia  Estonia  Latvia  Lithuania    total number    27 962 220  276 621  449 068  311 441  610 111  287 153  91 729  127 525  50 084  34 657  36 230    Sources  EC (2012)  Eurostat (2013)    Total bedplaces    % in total number of bedplaces in regions…    predominantly urban     regions  25.3  4.6  23.8  14.9  18.9  7.6  0.0  14.9  34.4  62.5  30.7    intermediate regions    42.5  76.1  41.4  25.5  53.5  61.1  64.3  41.7  7.5  16.3  40.4    predominantly rural     regions  32.2  19.3  34.8  59.6  27.6  31.3  35.7  43.4  58.1  21.2  28.9    73    Original Paper     EU area. For the EU27 as a whole  the share of the   available bedplaces is lower in the predominantly   rural regions (i.e. representing 26.5% in the total ac  commodation capacity) than in the predominantly   urban and intermediate regions (i.e. 73.5% of the   total). On the other hand  the distribution of bed  places among the EU27 Member States reveals that   some countries report a higher share of the “rural”   bedplaces (in the total accommodation capacity)   than their share of bedplaces at national level  high  lighting the importance of rural tourism in these   countries (Eurostat 2013). This is the case of France   (which holds about one quarter of the total number   of the European rural tourism bedplaces)  Germany    Austria and Greece (for EU27) or Poland (for the   Central and Eastern Europe). Table 1 highlights the   urbanrural differences in the terms of bedplaces in   the Central and Eastern Europe (CEE)  in comparison   with the EU27 average.    In the EU agricultural holdings (economic entities   which obtain supplementary incomes from other   gainful activities than agriculture)  the share of ru  ral tourism in their total revenues is considerable.   Related to the EU27 average of 12.5%  there are   countries reporting consistently more revenues from   rural tourism  e.g. the United Kingdom (26.5% rural   tourism revenue)  Italy (23.5%) and France (18%).   On the opposite  there are Cyprus and Malta with   0%  Bulgaria with 0.8% and Romania with 1%. At the   CEE level  the best results are registered by Poland   (8.8% of the total revenue coming from rural tour  ism)  Hungary  Slovakia and Latvia (approx. 7% each)   (Eurostat 2013).    Romanian rural areas  despite their favourable   natural resources  report only a modest contribution   to the national employment and GDP  compared to   their potential. According to the official statistics    in 2012  the touristic and agrotouristic boarding   houses held together about 17% of the total accom  modation capacity (Statistical Yearbook 2012). The   real figure could be at least 30% higher  considering   that the important accommodation facilities from   rural areas are undeclared or underestimated in the   terms of available rooms. Developing rural tourism   is also a solution to the demographic  economic and   social problems faced by the Romanian rural areas    and thus public and private efforts should be more   focused on achieving this goal in a sustainable way.   However  as in case of all SMEs  the survival and the   expansion of the ventures operating in rural tourism   still face numerous restrictions and uncertainties      74    Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80    doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON    constraints and obstacles  especially related to the   access to the financing resources.     AN OVERVIEW OF THE LITERATURE ON   THE FINANCING CONSTRAINTS IN RURAL   TOURISM     Currently  the access of firms to financing sources   could be achieved in two ways (sources)  through the   internal financing  mainly from the owner contribu  tion and retained earnings (profits)  or through the   external financing  funds attracted from the family    friends and the capital market sources (e.g. banks    financial companies and equity investors). According   to DemirgucKunt et al. (2008)  in developing coun  tries  the firms – in order to cover their needs for   survival or even growth – use external financing in   a significant proportion  40% for large companies   and about 20–30% for SMEs; however  a much lower   percentage of the productive investment needs are   covered from the external sources (e.g. banks)  about   30% for large companies and less than 15% for small   firms. The SMEs’ access to finance is particularly   more difficult  due to several constraints and failures   coming both from the government institutions and   from the market  (a) environmental factors (i.e. the   macroeconomic instability  the role of public sector    the level of development of the financial system  a poor   enforcement of contracts or ineffective bankruptcy   laws etc.); (b) supply side factors (i.e. informational   asymmetries  high transaction costs  weak property   rights  the efficiency of the banking sector  physical   barriers accessing funds and the lack of exit oppor  tunities for investments); and (c) demand side factors   (deriving from the own limitations of the firms  such   as the management skills  a low willingness to access   certain types of finance and improper corporate   practices) (Sinha and Fiestas 2011). In the following   part  we will focus on those constraints which occur   more frequently in the rural tourism activities.    The macroeconomic instability  the a fiscal system   and policies or state interventions (Boyd et al. 2001;   Honohan 2003)  a high inflation  the exchange rate   fluctuations  the high interest rate and shorter loan   maturities make the firms’ access to finance more   difficult and more expensive (DemirgucKunt et al.   2008). The rural (particularly agricultural) sector   “benefits” from the public involvement through the   establishment and capitalization of banks and devel  opment agencies or strategic infrastructure projects.     Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80     Original Paper    doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON  While positive at first glance  these interventions   create a preferential access to public funds and bank   loans for certain categories of companies  usually the   large companies. The overlapping between the state   institutions and banks (private or not) regarding the   SMEs financing will distort the market mechanisms   and competition and will reduce the incentives for   the private sector to participate in the markets (RAM   Consultancy Services 2005; DemirgucKunt et al.   2008).    The informational asymmetry reduces the access   to lending  due to the fact that the information about   entrepreneurial ventures is not easily accessible to   lenders. The lack of the relevant historical record   of the credit relation and risk profile  the few data   and knowledge about customers and suppliers  the   precarious and unprofessionally prepared financial   statement etc.  create a high risk perception from   the banks’ side  consequently limiting the access   to finance  increasing costs and tightening the ad  ditional credit conditions (i.e. collateral  covenants    monitoring)  which will end off in discouraging the   firms to borrow.    Financial institutions (mainly the banks) are some  times reluctant to lend to the SMEs due to the high   costs per customer  risks and impossibility to recover   these costs through the economies of scale or by   widening relationships with those clients (Degryse   and Van Cayseele 2000). Like corporate financing  the   SMEs (including rural tourism ventures) are requested   to supply detailed business plans  documentation   and risk scenarios  and commitments in legal forms    together with a long credit approval period. While   often the repayment period is shorter  the financial   and time costs to obtain a credit can be substantial    relative to the size of the enterprise  and hinder the   SMEs from the banking financing (RAM Consultancy   Services 2005).     In most cases  the firms cannot meet the banks’   requirements for the loan collateral due to the insuf  ficient assets  not only because of their small size   or due to the early stages of development  but also   because the entrepreneurs/owners are reluctant to   reinvest profits in their company (RAM Consultancy   Services 2005).    Physical restrictions (e.g. location) also affect the   access to finance. In most of the developing countries    banking concentration in major urban areas contrasts   with the banks’ absence in rural areas (Sinha and   Fiestas 2011)  especially in the monoagricultural   and isolated communities  where the physical ele    ment  i.e. the distance  can act as a limiting factor in   searching and finding the appropriate funding (Beck   et al. 2007). Poor financial and managerial skills  a   low educational level  the impossibility to acquire   the additional knowledge  the disinterest in financial   matters or in the modern methods of monitoring    planning and management could easily make the dif  ference between successful or stagnant businesses    between growth  survival  or even failure.    The unwillingness to enter into credit relations or   to attract equity investors  even the fear of the com  plications which may arise (e.g. taxes  complicated   and frequent reports) also explain why some cautious   entrepreneurs may choose to remain with small busi  ness  to protect their ownership  as they perceive the   benefits of economic growth to be offset by the costs   (the legal system  the corruption of public officials)   (Cressy and Olofsson 1997).     Financial constraints are higher for the startups   and small firms  while large firms  especially foreign  owned  with a significant history and record  seem   to face fewer difficulties to access capital (Beck et al.   2005; Carreira and Silva 2010). Financial constraints   are particularly experienced by firms operating in   agriculture  due to specific sectoral risks and the   long history of public sector intervention (World   Bank 2008). Moreover  SMEs from information and   communication technology (ICT)  leisure tourism   (including rural tourism)  innovative sectors etc.   may feel discriminated  due to financing risks or   asset specificity.     SMEs particular profile in rural areas is based on a   series of distinctive characteristics of the rural environ  ment. Thus  the small size of local markets (includ  ing the labour markets and occupations)  associated   with low population densities and low incomes per   capita or household  can impose constraints on rapidly   growing of SMEs (Smallbone 2009). Furthermore  the   availability of business premises  transport and com  munications infrastructure (Barkema and Drabenstott   2000)  and the access to information  advice and busi  ness services and finance (Smallbone 2009) augment   the picture of rural businesses. SMEs located in rural   areas are more stable  use fewer employees and their   financial performance is weaker than for urbanbased   SMEs (Carrington and Zantoko 2008).     In terms of Romania – EU comparisons  we notice   that  apart from some minor differences  these fac  tors act relatively similar. The difference between   Romania (and other CEE countries) and the rest of   the EU countries seems to reside in the behaviour     75    Original Paper     and involvement of local authorities and institutions    education and training  supporting market institu  tions and banking system  accessing the financial   support (i.e. EU grants) etc. (Piasecki and Rogut 2004;   Smallbone and Welter 2006).    RESEARCH METHODOLOGY    To address our objectives of investigating credi  tors’ involvement  the availability and constraints   in financing ventures operating in rural tourism  we   designed and implement a surveybased research from   the supplyside perspective (i.e. creditors  especially   banks). The research was carried out as a part of a   wider project investigating the relevant issues on the   importance of the relationship between SMEs acting   in rural tourism and banks  specific sectoral financ  ing issues (tourism business risks  peculiarities able   to affect the credit policy)  the most adequate type   of banks for the SMEs in tourism etc.     The questionnaire contained 18 questions  divided   into three main themes  the importance of relation  ship banking  supply and demand for funding  and   rural tourism financing issues. The majority of ques  tions have multiplescale responses  two were open   questions  and  finally  two questions concerned the   information about the respondents.    The questionnaire was administered during Ja  nuary–March 2012. Data collection focused on gath  ering information especially from the bank managers    the SMEs risk managers and the SMEs relationship   managers from different banks in Romania. We took   into consideration that the staff holding these mana  gerial positions has specific training  job responsi  bilities  a direct or intermediated contact with loan   requests and applications  and consequently they   could provide the relevant answers. We could  thus    avoid the common or general and unrelated opin  ions from other bank employees without experience   or specific responsibilities in the SMEs financing.   Most of the respondents (i.e. 85%) were employed   in bank units located in the NorthWestern Region   of Romania  and the rest (i.e. 15%) in the Centre   Region and Western Region. The large majority   of the respondents (i.e. 80%) work in the branches   and the rest of 20% in the banks’ head offices. As a   result of the survey  the primary dataset consisted of   67 responses from the managers working in 20 banks   (out of the total of 42 banks existing in Romania at   the date of performing the survey). After removing     76    Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80    doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON    the questionnaires containing errors  the resulted   valid sample consisted of 64 responses.    Given that the majority of responses (i.e. 85%) were   collected from the NorthWest Region of Romania    and the rest from the Centre and West Region  we   check the issue of their representativeness. Indeed    there are no special features  different economic laws   or regulations for this area  or special behaviours   or practices coming from the banks and govern  ment agencies related to the SMEs or rural business    compared to other regions of Romania  or anything   else that could influence the representativeness of   the results.     In order to specifically address our research ob  jectives  we focused on the following five research   questions (RQ)     RQ1. Are the banks interested in/effectively involved   in financing the rural tourism businesses  in a similar   extent with businesses operating in other sectors?    RQ2. Do banks consider the financing ruralbased   tourism ventures as relatively riskier than the busi  nesses operating in other sectors?     RQ3. Do the banks’ size and origin significantly   influence their involvement in financing the rural   tourism ventures?    RQ4. Which are the most important risk factors in     financing the rural tourism SMEs?    RQ5. Which are the characteristics of the tourism   business proved to be adequate to ensure a more   probable reimburse of loans?    RESULTS AND DISCUSSION    RQ1. Are the banks interested in/effectively involved   in financing the rural tourism businesses  in a similar   extent with businesses operating in other sectors?    Starting from  (1) the common typology of tourist   activities practiced in rural areas  i.e. in the touristic   and agrotouristic boarding houses; (2) the types of   financing  working capital  investment financing and   cofinancing projects with the European funds etc.  we   found the following results  from the 64 valid responses    there were 62 respondents (i.e. 97%) indicating that   the bank they represent has been involved in financing   the rural tourism business. In the terms of the type of   financing  we noticed that the working capital loans   are the least accessed  mentioned only by 23 bank’s   representatives (i.e. 36%)  probably due to the bank  ing requirements and the firms’ managers’ opinion   that operating activities can be supported from the     Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80     doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON  current incomes. Instead  the appeal for the bank sup  port in investment projects (such as construction or   modernization  equipment and facilities purchasing)    projects that are difficult to be covered only by the   distributed profits and the shareholders contribution   is mentioned by 38 banks’ representatives (i.e. 59%).   Finally  the involvement of the banks in financing   projects implemented with the EU funds is most often   mentioned  respectively by 56 banks’ representatives   (i.e. 88%). There are some explanations for this last   situation  the existence of an already checked and   approved business and project  the existence of a   collateral and a certain repayment source  especially   in the case when the bank cofinancing is covered by   the repayment instalments from implementing agen  cies  and  last but not least  an acceptable degree of   utilization of these funds (considerably higher than the   national average). Aggregately  20 responses indicate   the bank involvement in only one form of financing   (whichever)  29 responses indicate the involvement   of banks in two different forms  and 13 responses in  dicate the involvement in all three forms of financing   the rural tourism activity.     Regarding how the banks perceive the risks associ  ated with the (rural) tourism businesses (RQ2). Do   banks consider financing the ruralbased tourism ven  tures as relatively riskier than the businesses operating   in other sectors?)  the results indicate 4 cases of the   banks’ representatives who ‘strongly agree’ with this   statement  26 ‘agree’  19 were neutral  13 ‘disagree’  and   3 ‘strongly disagree’. With the weighted average of 3.3   (calculated as the average of responses ranging from   1 – strongly disagreement  to 5 – strongly agreement)    the rural tourism businesses seem to be considered   by the banks as slightly riskier than the businesses in   other sectors. However  the perceived risk is lower than   the risk expected for the entire tourism sector. There   are two possible explanations. On the one hand  the   rural tourism activity was less affected by the crisis    due to the reorientation of the touristic flows from     Table 2. Banks’ perception on the risks of financing the   rural tourism businesses (calculated as the weighted   average of the responses ranging from 1– strongly disa  greement  to 5 – strongly agreement)    Average    3.26    Banks  by ownership    foreign domestic   private  3.23    3.1    state    3.8    Banks  by size  small   top 10   banks  banks  3.19  3.32    Source  authors’ calculations based on the dataset    Original Paper    the expensive (i.e. foreign destination) to more afford  able (i.e. national) destinations  and from the classic   resorts to the less expensive guest houses in rural   areas. On the other hand  most of the respondents   indicate that they cofinanced the European projects   implementation  which involved reasonable amounts   of money and a lower risk of default.    Regarding the ownership or the bank size (RQ3.   Do banks’ size and origin significantly influence   their involvement in financing the rural tourism   ventures?) the score recorded by the foreign owned   banks (i.e. the subsidiaries of multinational banks   in Romania  which represented about 83% of the   Romanian banking system assets in 2011) is the closest   to the average (i.e. 3.23)  while the private domestic   banks (with a score of 3.1) are less likely to consider   rural tourism as a sector with higher risks than other   sectors. On the contrary  for the stateowned banks    rural businesses are considered quite risky  with the   score of 3.8  significantly far beyond the average of   3.3. Analyzing the banks’ perceptions by their size    we found no significant differences; both banks from   the top 10 by size (with the score of 3.19)  and small   banks (with 3.32) are about as close to the average.  Another relevant issue concerns the most important   risk factors taken into consideration in the financing   of the SMEs operating in tourism (RQ4). The results   are synthesized in Figure 1.     Very important    Important    Less important    (%) 70  60  50  40  30  20  10  0    53    41    48    50    44    29    23    t  r  o  p  x  e    n  e  v  e     l  a  n  r  e  t  x  E    6    y  t  i  l  a  n  o  s  a  e  S    61    53    33    28    19    6    6    e  c  n  e  i  r  e  p  x  e    w  o    l     s  ’  r  e  g  a  n  a    M    s  e  u  s  s  i     l  a  r  e  t  a  l  l    o  C    y  c  n  e  u  q  e  r  f       h  g  i  H    s  n  a  o    l       d    i  a  p  n  u       f  o    Figure 1. The most important risk factors in financing   the tourism businesses  Source  authors’ construction based on the dataset    77    Original Paper     Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80    doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON    Table 3. Opinions regarding the importance of the appropriate business characteristics which enable the loan   reimbursement    Low indebtedness level    Affiliation to a     wellknown brand      association    Diversification of   activities  alternative   sources of income    Very prudent     investment policy    28  36  0    16  41  7    Very important   Important  Less important    25  36  3    31  30  3    Source  authors’ calculations based on the dataset    As revealed  the low experience of the managers   and the high seasonality (implicitly the seasonality of   the cashflow) appear to be the risk factors with the   highest score of importance (50% and 41%  respec  tively). On the contrary  bankers do not perceive very   serious threats in the impact of the external events    difficult to control  based on the premise that most   of these events affect the rural tourism firms in a   reduced manner. It is quite surprisingly a relatively   low score attributed to the collateral problems (i.e.   28%)  which can be explained by the quite frequent   involvement in cofinancing the European projects    where the associated risks are limited and the specific   collateral requirements are diminished.     Finally  we surveyed the banks representatives re  garding their opinion on the repayment possibilities    and more specifically which are the characteristics   of the tourism business proved to be more adequate   to enable the loan reimbursing (RQ5).    Data from Table 3 reveal that the banks rate as   very important the “diversification of activities and   alternative sources of income” and “maintaining a low   indebtedness level”. These opinions are predictable    as they come from the creditors’ side  but they are   also appropriate to the nature of the rural tourism   business  where the risk of concentration on a sole   touristic activity is consistent  and the excessive in  vestments could be fatal to small businesses  in the   case of low and unstable tourist flows. Obviously    the affiliation to a recognized brand and joining the   reservation systems could provide flows which are   relatively stable over time and could generate a suf  ficient cashflow. A positive aspect is the fact that   the banks do not encourage an excessively prudent   investment policy  aware that the valorisation of the   opportunities and the diversification of activities   (and of income sources) could be achieved only with   adequate facilities  and with a reasonable amount of   specialized assets.     78    CONCLUSIONS AND POLICY   IMPLICATIONS    Rural tourism could be both a chance for the rural   areas’ revival and a possible solution to the problems   aﬀ ecting them. Moreover  for a sustainable development   of rural tourism  beneﬁ cial for the local communities    it is also necessary that the businesses be local and   capitalize also the favourable naturebased resources   and the cultural heritage (i.e. traditions  history and   local speciﬁ cities). Consistent with other researches    we found that the supply of funding for rural busi  nesses is somewhat weaker and less competitive com  pared to the urbanbased businesses. Financing small   businesses operating in rural tourism is provided by   two main sources  i.e. the government programs and   banks. We found that the banks could support and   supplement the necessary funds  both in the case of   independent investments and in the case of accessing   the public sources (e.g. EU funds). Although considered   as slightly riskier than other sectors  the rural tourism   businesses could be a good opportunity for the banks    under certain conditions. Th  erefore  the SMEs should   made rational and intelligent investments  they should   diversify their incomegenerating activities and increase   the experience and responsibility of management. Our   study conﬁ rmed  however  that a certain caution of the   lenders cannot be attributed only to the relatively small   size of the business  of the collateral or to the ﬁ nancial   performance  but also to the quality of management   and (in) ability to transform the existing opportunities   into viable plans. On the other hand  partially refuting   the previous researches  we found that  far from the   agglomeration and overlapping between the private   funding and the government intervention  the banks   are involved and complement the funding opportuni  ties oﬀ ered by the public support programs.    We found that the domestic private banks have a   greater willingness and propensity to finance rural     Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80     doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON  businesses  and the logical relation between the na  ture of the capital of these banks and the local  inland   specificities of these businesses should not be ignored   when designing the future economic policies. Rural   tourism businesses still need a genuine  adequate   support especially for the SMEs  besides the clas  sical corporate investments and largescale public   projects in the tourism infrastructure development.   However  our research shows that even if there are   some differences between the types of banks willing   to get involved in the rural tourism businesses  such   differences are not as consistent as they were outlined   in the literature or in empirical studies conducted   in other countries. The existence of profitable busi  nesses  the company’s capacity to mitigate risks and   to generate a diversified growth are targeted by any   bank regardless its size  capital or location.    Policies to support the rural businesses should be   regional in goals and systematic in approach  avoid  ing focus only on the shortterm eﬀ ects. Most rural   communities have a reduced critical mass of economic   initiatives and  therefore  they can aﬀ ord a very small   margin of error. The moderate interest of banks in   the ruralbased tourism businesses has to be boosted   through better synergies and complementarities with   the public assistance programs  in particular through   the access to the EU funds for rural tourism. In the   long run  these could lead to a diversiﬁ cation of the   funding supply from all banks in the market. We found   that some of the perceived business risks and the loans   repayment capacity are fuelled by external factors    which are less inﬂ uenced by the administrative action   (e.g. seasonality  external events). As a conclusion  the   policies to support the rural tourism business should   be focused on improving other aspects which could   help strengthening the rural tourism businesses  such   as developing managerial skills  supporting the as  sociation and cooperation between ﬁ rms  providing   loan guarantees  identifying opportunities for the di  versiﬁ cation of income sources. Th  e authorities should   avoid the fragmentation of programs  the overlapping   of diﬀ erent supporting policies. Finally  a considerable   attention should be given to simplifying the programs   assisting the rural business development.    REFERENCES    Barkema A.  Drabenstott M. (2000)  How Rural America   sees its Future. The Main Street Economist  Federal   Reserve Bank of Kansas City  Kansas City.    Original Paper    Beck T.  DemirgucKunt A.  Maksimovic V. (2005)  Finan  cial and legal constraint to firm growth  does firm size   matter? Journal of Finance  60  137–177.    Beck T.  DemirgucKunt A.  Laeven L.  Maksimovic V.   (2006)  The determinants of financing obstacles. Jour  nal of International Money and Finance  25  932–952.  Beck T.  DemirgucKunt A.  Martinez Peria M. (2007)    Reaching out  Access to and use of banking services   across countries. Journal of Financial Economics  85    234–266.    Bednaríkova Z.  Doucha T. (2009)  The impacts of agri  cultural policy scenarios on development of remote   rural areas – the case study of the Bruntál and Ostrava   districts. Agricultural Economics – Czech  55  161–168.  Boyd J.  Levine R.  Smith B. (2001)  The impact of inflation   on financial sector performance. Journal of Monetary   Economics  47  221–248.    Carreira C.  Silva F. (2010)  No deep pockets  Some stylized   empirical results on firms’ financial constraints. Journal   of Economic Surveys  24  731–753.    Carrington C.  Zantoko L. (2008)  Small Business Financ  ing Profiles. SME Financing Data Initiative. Available   at http //www.smefdi.gc.ca/eic/site/sme_fdiprf_pme.  nsf/eng/Home (accessed March 2014).    Cressy R.  Olofsson C. (1997)  European SME financing  an     overview. Small Business Economics  9  87–96.    Degryse H.  Van Cayseele P. (2000)  Relationship lending   with a bankbased system  evidence from European small   business data. Journal of FinancialIntermediation  9    90–109.    DemirgucKunt A.  Beck T.  Honohan P. (2008)  Finance   for All? Policies and Pitfalls in Expanding Acces. The   World Bank  Washington  DC.     Drabenstott M.  Meeker L. (1997)  Financing rural America    A conference summary. Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas   City  Economic Review  Second Quarter  89–98.    Drabenstott M.  Novack N.  Abraham B. (2003)  Main   streets of tomorrow  growing and financing rural entre  preneurs  A conference summary. Federal Reserve Bank   of Kansas City  Economic Review  Third Quarter  73–85.  EC (2012)  Rural Development in the European Union.   Statistical and Economic Information Report 2012.   European Commission  DirectorateGeneral for Agri  culture and Rural Development.    Eurostat (2013)  Regional Yearbook 2013 Edition. Chapter   15. Available at http //epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu/cache/  ity_offpub/ksha13001/en/ksha13001en.pdf (ac  cessed March 2014).    Honohan P.E. (2003)  Taxation of Financial Intermediation    Theory and Practice for Developing Countries. Oxford   University Press  New York.     79    Original Paper     Agric.Econ.– Czech  61  2015 (2)  72–80    doi  10.17221/94/2014AGRICECON    Hron J.  Macak T.  Huml J. (2009)  Design of the diversifica  tion classifier for agricultural entrepreneurs activities.   Agricultural Economics – Czech  55  565–570.    Jeníček V. (2011)  Developing countries  trends  differen  tiation. Agricultural Economics – Czech  57  175–187.  OECD (1994)  Tourism Strategies and Rural Development.     OCDE/GD(94)49  Paris.     Piasecki B.  Rogut A. (2004)  Poland  the Zary and Bia  lystock regions. In  Labrianidis L. (ed.)  The Future of   Europe’s Rural Peripheries. Ashgate  Aldershot and   Burlington.    RAM Consultancy Services (2005)  SMEs Access to Fi  nancing  Addressing the Supply Side of SME Financing.   REPSF Project No. 04/003  1–28.    Sinha S.  Fiestas I. (2011)  Literature Review on Constraints   to Investment in Developing Countries. Nathan Associ  ates Inc.  London.    Smallbone D. (2009)  Fostering entrepreneurship in rural   areas. In  Potter J. (ed.)  Strengthening Entrepreneurship   and Economic Development in East Germany  Lessons   from Local Approaches. OECD  Paris  161–187.    Smallbone D.  Welter F. (2006)  Conceptualising entrepre  neurship in a transition context. International Journal   of Entrepreneurship and Small Business  3  190–206.  Statistical yearbook 2012 (2012)  Tourism. National In  stitute of Statistics  Romania. Available at http //www.  insse.ro/cms/en/content/statisticalyearbook2012 (ac  cessed April 2013).    UNWTO (2011)  Annual Report 2010. A Year of Recovery.   UNWTO  Madrid. Available at http //media.unwto.org/  sites/all/files/pdf/finalannualreportpdf.pdf (accessed   May  2013).    World Bank (2008)  Agriculture for Development. World     Development Report  Washington.    Received  25th June 2014  Accepted  9th October 2014    Contact address     Daniel Badulescu  Faculty of Economic Sciences  University of Oradea  Str. Universitatii no.1  410087Oradea    Romania  email  dbadulescu@uoradea.ro    80    