here  in file  Small and medium enterprises ﬁnancing in China    Walter Garcia–Fontes    Universitat Pompeu Fabra    SUMMARY    November 2005    Introduction    After the start of an opendoor policy in 1978 moving towards a more marketoriented economy   China has experienced a decline in stateowned enterprises and an important expansion for small  businesses. The role of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in economic development is well  documented for advanced economies and have been crucial in China’s process of economic reform.  It has been pivotal in China’s impressive economic growth during the last decades. Nevertheless   some bottlenecks and obstacles appear for further growth of SMEs  especially with respect to  ﬁnancing.    In this paper we describe the situation of SMEs in China and the main issues concerning the  ﬁnancing of SMEs. SMEs have been part of China’s impressive economic growth of the last  decades and the main actors in the privatization process. There is evidence  though  that further  development is constrained by different factors  one of which is access to ﬁnance.    1 The development of SMEs in China    According to the World Bank Investment Climate Survey for China  SMEs in China face important  credit constraints  and have limited access to private ﬁnance compared to other Asian countries  included in the survey1. The survey also shows that the use of formal ﬁnance declines with ﬁrm    1According to the survey  SMEs in China obtain only 12 percent of their working capital from bank loans   while SMEs obtain 21 percent in Malaysia  24 percent in Indonesia  28 percent in the Philippines and 26    1    size. SMEs use less formal ﬁnance than large ﬁrms in all countries  since they are younger and  subject to more growth uncertainty than large ﬁrms  but in China the difference is larger  even if  we compare it with other Asian countries2.    A very important issue is what ﬁnance is available to startup ﬁrms. The Project Group of  Research in Chinese Private Enterprises organized by China Industrial and Commercial Union and  Research Commission of Chinese Private Business showed in a survey conducted in 2002 that  selfaccumulated money was the major source for starting up ﬁrms (approximately 55 percent)   complemented by money borrowed privately (31.6 percent) and bank and Rural Credit Corporation  loans (23.4 percent).    The main problems related to SME access to ﬁnance in China are the following     Structure of the ﬁnancial system China lacks an adequate credit system for SMEs  com  posed of the appropriate ﬁnancialservice institutions. Large stateowned commercial banks have a  very high market share of deposits and loans. The rating requirements for loans are quite high and  are not met by SMEs  or the minimum amount that banks will lend vastly exceeds the demands for  SMEs. City and rural credit cooperatives cannot ﬁll this gap due to their own structural limitations.  A related issue is the insufﬁcient development of the capital market in China. The capital  markets started being developed by the sale of stateowned enterprises shares  but with a very  cautious gradualist approach. This affected the initial development of stock markets. From the  huge fund of household deposits only a small percentage (67 percent) are in the stock market  (Kanamori and Zhao  2004  p. 36). In short  there is not enough liquidity to absorb outstanding  shares and there is a lack of institutional investors. Better perspectives can be found by the entrance  of insurance companies and securities investment funds  which have been encouraged to invest in  the stock market and are growing fast.    Existence of collateral to banks The most common mechanism to reduce informational  problems in ﬁnancing SMEs is the use of appropriate collateral. In general it is easier to assess the  value of assets instead of the value of expected future cashﬂows. In the United States  for instance   92 percent of SME debt is secured by appropriate collateral and 52 percent of debt is guaranteed by  the owners of the ﬁrms (Berger and Udell 1998). The most common form of collateral is accounts  receivable or inventory.    But SMEs in developing countries in general  and speciﬁcally in China  lack of appropriate  collateral to support their repayment ability in front of banks. The eligible collateral that can be  used is determined by Article 34 of the Guarantee Law of the People Republic of China (1995)   which usually are hard for SMEs to provide to banks3.    percent in Korea and Thailand (Dollar et. al. 2003  page 31).    2Bank loans ﬁnance 27 percent of working capital of ﬁrms with 100 or more employees  but it drops to  13 percent for ﬁrms with 20 to 99 employees  ant to 2.3 for ﬁrms with less than 20 employees. For India   bank loan ﬁnancing for the same ﬁrm sizes are 39  38 and 29 percent (Dollar et. al 2003).    3Article 34 states the following  “The following property may be mortgaged  1. Buildings and other  objects ﬁxed on land  which are owned by the mortgager; 2. Machines  means of transport and other  property  which are owned by the mortgager; 3. Useright of state owned land  buildings and other objects  ﬁxed on land  which the mortgager has the right to dispose according to law; 4. Stateowned machines     2    Credit rating There is a lack of credit rating assessments for SMEs in China  together with  low incentive of SMEs to build a credit reputation since it does not have a direct effect on future  borrowing. This affects negatively the quality of loans and decreases further the credit rating  of SMEs. A nationwide credit assessment system for SMEs was proposed in 2001. This credit  assessment system was intended to improve the information processing and transmission of the  credit situation of SMEs.    Accounting and auditing Financial structure of private ﬁrms is often opaque. There is a lack  of transparent  audited ﬁnancial records. There are restrictions in the registration under different  forms of incorporation that gives incentives to ﬁrms to misrepresent ﬁnancial ﬂows  total employ  ees  stocks of assets  and other aspects of the accounting and ﬁnancial structure of ﬁrms. The tax  system also can be circumvented partially by misreporting  usually underrecording. As in other  countries where incentives for true reporting are weak  ﬁrms are said to keep different account  ing books  one for the government  one for banks and the last one for themselves (International  Financial Corporation 2003).    Economies of Scale There are important economies of scale in the activity related to bor  rowing by banks. These economies of scale cannot be exploited at the typical borrowing scale  of SMEs  and consequently banks will prefer large loans which can only be demanded by larger  enterprises.    Political risks According to Mu (2002)  since most SMEs are nonstate enterprises  the risks  involved in performing bad loans is higher than for larger ﬁrms where there are still more state  owned enterprises.    Tax and investment policy treatment Private SMEs have disadvantages in accessing credit  and receiving approval due to their weaker connection to local authorities (as compared to state  owned enterprises or privatized former stateowned enterprises  see for instance Kanamori and  Zhao  2004). This is also true for incentives in investment policy with respect to stateowned and  foreign enterprises (Kanamori  2004). Foreign ﬁrms  for instance  can enjoy special tax exemption  programs  where they get exemptions for two years after the ﬁrst year that they register proﬁts.  Private ﬁrms instead are subject to a 33% income tax plus a 20% individual adjustment tax.    2 Current SME ﬁnancing policies in China    The Chinese government has become increasingly sensitive to the need of SME development. Pol  icy has consisted of a mixture of interventions in ﬁnancial markets to support access to ﬁnance and    means of transport and other property  which the mortgager has the right to dispose according to law; 5.  The landuserights of barren mountains  barren valleys  waste hills and waste sands  which the mortgager  has contracted according to law and the contract offering party agrees on the mortgage; 6. Other property   which may be mortgaged according to law. A mortgager may mortgage the properties listed in the preceding  paragraph concurrently”.    3    programs for local governments for SME development. In September 1999 a series of measures  were enacted in order to restructure the SME sector. These included the promotion of ﬁrm groups  and the exit of nonviable small ﬁrms  as well as the set up of business development services  to assist SMEs in information consulting  marketing  funding  credit guarantee  technical support  and services. In June 2002 the SME Promotion Law was enacted  emphasizing fair treatment and a  “level playing ﬁeld” for SMEs. This included greater access to ﬁnance and encouragement for ven  ture capital investments in SMEs. To increase ﬁnancial support the SME Technology Innovation  Fund was established in 2000. The Law did not include any speciﬁc funding  program monitoring  or enforcement. These measures were complemented with the Government Procurement Law of  2002 encouraging contracts to SMEs and mandates of the People’s Bank of China so that banks  relax loan approval procedures for SMEs with good credit records.    At the ﬁnancial sector  an intended support measure for SMEs was the establishment of a  ceiling on interest rates for loans to SMEs. This had a perverse effect as it decreased the incentives  of banks to lend to SMEs (Wako 2004). In December 2000 the People’s Bank of China raised the  ceiling on interest rate for SME loans.    Credit guarantee schemes (CGSs) were ﬁrst implemented in Shanghai and Chongqing in 1992.  Initially they consisted of mutual guarantee funds (MGFs). The ﬁrst commercial guarantee compa  nies (CGCs) were established in 1994 in Sichuan and Guangdong  and after 1999  CGAs have been  established at provincial and municipal levels under government sponsorship. Apart from these   there are also provincial credit reguarantee agencies (PCGAs) and municipal guarantee agencies  (MCGAs). CGAs account for about 90 % of the total credit guarantee business for SMEs  and  obtain reguarantee services from the other institutions. Prudential regulation and supervision of  CGS is still preliminary and incomplete (Mu  2002). It consists only of some simple ratios to con  trol for exposure to single clients4. There are no requirements on minimum capital  liquidity risk  and risksharing ratios.    3 SME ﬁnancing policies  experiences from other coun    tries    In the the 1960s and 1970s different developing countries enacted active policies towards SMEs   mainly based on directed credit programs as a tool for economic development and growth. The  main arguments in favor of direct support and subsidies for developing countries relied on mainly  on three arguments. First  it was argued that SMEs enhance competition and entrepreneurship and  therefore their development has a positive impact on innovation and productivity growth. Second   it was also argued that SMEs can be more productive than large ﬁrms  but their development is con  strained by an insufﬁcient development of the ﬁnancial system that is not able to provide sufﬁcient  credit for them  which has to be provided by direct government support. Third  it was thought that  SMEs are labor intensive and therefore their development helps in reducing unemployment and  poverty.    After the 1980s though  direct support policies for SMEs started to be reconsidered  as practices  in different countries showed that they mainly stimulated capitalintensive projects. On the other    4For instance it is stipulated that a single client should not have more than 10% of it paidin capital.    4    hand preferential funds were sometimes allocated for nonpriority purposes  such as the survival  of declining industries  and reduced ﬁnancial discipline conducting to repayment problems  which  in turn had a negative impact on budget deﬁcits. Finally  direct support programs for SMEs created  their own strong political support and are very hard to remove once implemented.    3.1 Support policies for Small and MediumSized Enterprises in Ja    pan and Korea    Despite the different historical development of SME support policies in Japan and Korea  some  common features can be described in both cases. Support policies for SMEs can be divided in ﬁve  categories. The ﬁrst type of policies refer to the promotion of association and cooperation of ﬁrms   and are oriented towards the creation of networks and subcontracting relationships. Very often  other types of support measures were subordinated to the creation of these cooperating networks.  The second category refers to the assistance for startups  technology transfer  product develop  ment and innovation. The third group of policies is related to marketing assistance  both for the  penetration of domestic as well as foreign markets. The fourth category is ﬁnancial assistance   both public support as well as access to private ﬁnancial services. In the ﬁfth category we can ﬁnd  a set of additional generic measures.    Association and cooperation. Both Japan and Korea have promoted vertical and horizontal  integration of their SMEs. Special credit and tax exemptions are provided for ﬁrms that belong to  associations. Joint marketing and information exchange are also promoted with this type of poli  cies. Japan has for instance promoted the creation of industrial and commercial agglomerates and  “shopping districts”. Cooperation with universities and research centers has been also incentivated.  Special training is also provided to facilitate this type of exchanges. With respect to subcontract  ing  special laws have been enacted to promote subcontracting relations and joint projects. This  has allowed in Korea to start subcontracting relations  since there were historically less developed  than in Japan.    Technical assistance. Technical assistance has been oriented mainly to the creation of public  R& D research centers for the diffusion and adoption of new technologies. The facilities are  available for SMEs both for inhouse technical assistance or to provide infrastructure for testing  and prototyping. Support centers for SMEs provide assistance for technology transfer  patents   foreign and domestic technology acquisition and adoption. These support centers have local and  regional branches.    Marketing Assistance.  Joint marketing projects for associations and cooperatives of SMEs  are promoted. Measures include technical services for marketing and the diffusion of information  on local and foreign markets. The objective of this type of measures is the promotion of the inter  nationalization of SMEs. The main agencies are the Japanese Small Business Corporation (JSBC)  and the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) in Japan  and the Korea Trade Promotion    5    Corporation (KOTRA) in Korea5. The main measures are the promotion of trade fairs  exploratory  tours  identiﬁcation of foreign services such as export insurance and the diffusion of market infor  mation. Special training for international trade and product promotion is also provided.    Financial assistance. The ﬁrst type of ﬁnancial support is related to loan assistance  which is  usually channeled through cooperatives and associations. Public funds do not represent the main  source of ﬁnance (they represent only 10% in Japan  for instance) and try to serve as a signal for  the involvement of the private sector. In Korea banks are required to channel speciﬁc percentages  of loans to SMEs. Special guarantee funds are also created to face the problem of collateral. The  last type of ﬁnancial support is associated with tax exemptions and depreciation allowances for  investments in equipment  R&D  export promotion and training.    Other types of measures. Other measures refer to special support for human resources in  SMEs  channeled through cooperatives and associations. Government procurement is also oriented  in part to SMEs  and some measures are taken to increase the opportunities of SMEs to participate  in this area.    3.2 Japan    The current ﬁnancial support for SMEs in Japan is formed by three components  Finance (through  the Japan Finance Corporation for Small and Medium Enterprise (JASME)  the National Life Fi  nance Corporation (NLFC)  the Shoko Chukin Bank and others)  credit supplementation (JASME  and Credit Guarantee Corporations)  and enhancement of capital (Small and Medium Business  Investment & Consultation Co. Ltd.). The main idea behind this ﬁnancial support system is to  supplement the activities of private ﬁnancial institutions.    Relationship banking has been particularly important in Japan  and has been founded on the  development of the banking system through a postwar policy of economic growth with bank regu  lation (Ueda  1994; Allen and Gale  2000). The system implied close relationships between banks  and borrowers  in general large ﬁrms but also associations and cooperatives of small ﬁrms  and  cross shareholdings between banks of ﬁrms. This longterm relationship between banks and bor  rowers allowed the bank to have very detailed information about ﬁrms and the ability to monitor  performance closely. In case of ﬁnancial difﬁculties  banks were also better placed to offer reﬁ  nancing or restructuring (Aoki et. al.   1994; Sheard  1994). This system was described as efﬁcient  as it implied more effective loans  with lower risk premia  while ﬁrms had better access to ﬁnance  and lower liquidity constraints (Hoshi et. al.  1990 and 1991). More recently  the system may be  evolving towards one increasingly based on internal funding  due to different reasons (Suzuki and  Cobham  2005). First  there is some evidence that ﬁrms monitored and tied to main banks may be  no longer getting better ﬁnancing (Hall and Weinstein  2000)  less liquidity constraints (Hayashi   2000) or better proﬁtability or performance (Weinstein and Yafeh  1998). The traditional view on  the importance of relationship banking has been also challenged by arguing that the main role in  the growth of Japanese ﬁrms was base on international competition rather than the banking struc    5The China External Trade Development Council has played this role in China.    6    ture (Hanazaki and Horiuchi  2000) or even that the Japanese banking system was detrimental to  the development of the equity market (Wood  1992).    Nowadays  support for Japans SMEs comes through the interaction between the private and  public sector. The support measures focus on technical  ﬁnancial and marketing assistance. The  main feature of the most dynamic sectors is the network of subcontracting agents that characterizes  most Japanese industrial sectors  for instance auto parts and synthetic textiles  as other producers of  intermediate goods  work mainly with subcontractors. Technical support for SMEs come mainly  through the interaction between these private ﬁrms  including parent ﬁrms  equipment suppliers  and other providers. It has been argued that small ﬁrms have helped large ﬁrms to function more  effectively  through the establishment of strong networks of collaboration and mutual dependence  (Friedman  1988). SMEs had to compete for subcontracts and this was good for large corpora  tions as it improved quality of components  implying quality improvements for the ﬁnal products  (Womack et. al  1990). Public support was subordinated to these private relations  and was ori  ented mainly to the creation and development of private networks6. Private sources such as parent  ﬁrms or trading companies also provide the main channels for marketing support.    Credit support for SMEs has been traditionally provided under competitive market conditions   except for about 20 per cent of the total credit volume which was provided by specialized publicly  supported agencies  local government or loan guarantees. Even in this sector default rates were  low (less than one per cent of outstanding loans).    It can be concluded that SME ﬁnancing in Japan is successfully integrated into a wellfunctioning    competitive and prudential ﬁnancial system  where the public sector plays a subordinate role both  in direct credit and in the establishment of partnerships between private ﬁrms and between the  public and private sector (Itoh and Urata  1994).    3.3 Korea    Support systems for SMEs in Korea have been traditionally based on three types of support  tech  nical  marketing and ﬁnancial.    The idea of technical support is based upon the fact that SMEs have greater difﬁculties in  accessing information about new technologies and how to introduce them proﬁtably into their pro  duction processes. This can be overcome by the set up of an external support system. Korea offers  an extensive network of agencies providing collective external technical support. This support  includes technical assistance  training programs  information services or joint research opportu  nities. These services are often complemented by ﬁnancial incentives. An important part of this  system is composed by the network of public research institutes  which try to assure that SMEs  can beneﬁt from technology transfer. Another component of the system is formed by nonproﬁt  private agencies. In a survey conducted in 1994  it was found that SMEs used often this technical  support system  but complained that the assistance was not always effective because of the lack of  experience that public agencies have in manufacturing (Kim and Nungent  1994).    Marketing support pursues the objective of overcoming marketing costs in what refers espe    6On the importance of the Japanese policy framework towards SMEs in encouraging interﬁrm networks     see for instance Aoyama (1999).    7    cially the penetration of external markets for exports. SMEs lack the inhouse resources of large  ﬁrms  since market information is hard to get and transactions costs are high. The Korean gov  ernment developed a variety of institutions to assist ﬁrms in marketing their products for export.  The largest agency is the Korea Trade Promotion Corporation (KOTRA) which offers informa  tion about foreign market opportunities  market research  assistance with trade fairs and overseas  marketing trips  and identiﬁcation of other services such as export insurance. Within KOTRA  the  Korea Trading Company (KTC) was speciﬁcally established to provide import/export services to  SMEs. A key feature of the KTC is that it operates commercially. Not all the marketing support  services are public  there is also the Korea Traders Association (KTA)  a large association repre  senting the interests of ﬁrms. This agency assures public relations and lobbying for ﬁrms  but also  encourages informationsharing.    Government ﬁnancial assistance for SMEs adopts many different forms. Originally the main  source of ﬁnancial support for SMEs came from unregulated nonbank ﬁnancial institutions  mainly  credit markets based on reputation and family relations with no tradable assets  informal commer  cial paper markets  mutual savings and loan funds  popular funds and private ﬁnance companies.  The interest rates for SMEs in these markets were very high  perhaps two times higher than those  in formal markets. The main collective source for SME ﬁnance support was the SME Restructure  Fund  created in 1978. During the 1970s  state commercial banks had to allocate 30 percent of  their new credit for SMEs  while for local banks it raised to 70 percent. In the 1980s  there was  a shift towards a stronger SME support system. Many SME oriented credit funds were set up to  encourage collective and cooperative activities among SMEs  to access new technologies and to  help SMEs relocate some of their operations abroad. Both commercial and rural banks were re  quired to allocate minimum speciﬁed percentages of loans to SMEs. Tax breaks were also used to  incentivate speciﬁc restructuring programs (accelerated depreciation allowances  deductions from  taxable income  tax moratoria and tax rate reductions  see Kim and Nugent 1999).    More recent trends in the development of SMEs  as stated above  have implied an increasing  role of SMEs in the Korean economy with respect to large conglomerates. An important aspect of  this more prominent role is the set of a subcontracting network between large and small ﬁrms (Nu  gent and Yee  2001). Access to successful large ﬁrms and other ﬁrms can be an important means  for SMEs to overcome some of the constraints on their development  under the right environment  (for instance in terms of competition). The model to follow is for instance the Japanese automo  bile industry  where a multitiered subcontracting system is regarded as transactioncost efﬁcient.  Some studies have compared Korea’s subcontracting system with Japan (Kim 1991) or with Tai  wan (Levy 1991)  and in both cases they ﬁnd these other systems of subcontracting to be deeper  and more transactioncost efﬁcient. Nevertheless  subcontracting is acquiring a very important role  for Korean SMEs.    3.4 Some common criteria    From the ﬁnancing practices of Japan and Korea it is possible to draw some criteria that may be  useful. These criteria were not applied consciously at all times  but expost they seem to show  practices that may be helpful in all contexts.    1. Financing programs for SMEs have to be sectorspeciﬁc  well focused and of limited dura    8    tion. In general  both in Japan and Korea the programs were targeted to speciﬁc sectors and  implemented locally.    2. Direct subsidies have to be in general avoided  as they introduce wrong investment incen  tives and distort the ﬁnancial intermediation system. There is no empirical support on the  effectiveness of direct subsidies. A well functioning business environment seems to be more  important.    3. To prevent a negative impact on inﬂation and macroeconomic stability  the programs have to    be in general ﬁnanced by longterm funds.    4. Declining industries should be treated apart from the rest  and any support there should be    have a very clear phaseout horizon.    5. Export orientation should be always promoted. In both Japan and Korea the most successful    support for SMEs seem to have been the promotion of access to international markets.    6. Policies should be part of a credible and consistent longterm development strategy. The  support for SMEs cannot be viewed as an isolated attempt to create employment and reduce  poverty  but as part of the creation of an adequate and competitive business environment   where strong links are established between large ﬁrms and SMEs.    7. The credit programs should be channeled by wellcapitalized and professionally managed  institutions  which should function autonomously and should use marketbased criteria for  the assessment of the loans. Public funding should be used as a signal for the involvement  of the private sector.    8. Monitoring criteria should be based on clear and objective information. In this sense clear  business plans and transparent accounting information seems to be very important to improve  the prospects of ﬁnancing.    9. Repayment procedures should be established as to avoid losses.    4 Proposed measures to improve small and mediumsi    zed enterprises ﬁnancing in China    In this section we draw some recommendations from the previous discussion. Some of the pro  posed measures are not strictly ﬁnancial  but can help in enhancing access of SMEs to ﬁnance.    Improving the ﬁnancial sector    1. China’s credit system should try to adapt for the ﬁnancing of SMEs  in order to increase  the amount of funds available to them. Right now stateowned banks do not have all the  resources to correctly evaluate credits for SMEs  most banks should have specialized de  partments for this type of credits. There should be also a more ﬂexible interest rate ﬂoating    9    regime for credit available to SMEs. Ceilings on interest rate may represent an important  constraint on SME access to ﬁnance. A ceiling on interest rates reduces the attractiveness  for banks to lend to SMEs.    2. Specialized ﬁnancial institutions oriented towards SME credit should be gradually devel  oped. To accomplish this goal  the current ﬁnancial structure should be appropriately re  formed. Currently there is an important amount of information asymmetry between urban  and rural credit cooperatives and SMEs. The latter should develop into independent nonstate  small and medium sized banks that could cooperate with SMEs and are incentivated by com  petition among them. The structure of ﬁnancial institutions oriented towards SMEs could  include different types of specialized institutions  regional stock markets  regional banks  initiated by nonstate investors  small credit guarantee companies  small leasing companies  ans small ﬁnance companies. All this structure should be complemented by the appropriate  regulatory framework  in order to prevent ﬁnancial risks.    3. It is very important that a socialcredit environment and an SME creditrating system is es  tablished. A wellfunctioning ﬁnancial system demands the existence of mechanisms where  efﬁcient SMEs can build their credit reputation and secure the funds that they need for their  growth. Since economic reforms in China are fairly recent  these type of mechanisms are  still to be developed.    Direct Support for SMEs    4. Government funds directly used to support SMEs should be subject to a professional man  agement based on commercial criteria. The current lack of transparency in the ﬁnancial and  accounting information of SMEs may be distorting resource allocation through incorrect  government funding.    5. SMEs also need a favorable external environment  composed by support in all social areas  and associated services. This should include an SME legal guarantee system  venture sup  port  ﬁscal and taxation support  professional and technical training and information and  consultation system.    Improving the ﬁnancial information of SMEs    6. Financial information systems should improve for SMEs. This involves a proper ﬁnancial  accounting system for SMEs  which has to assure adequate disclosure of ﬁnancial informa  tion at least in three basic components of the budgetary period  a) the operating statement   the balance sheet and the cash–ﬂow statement. This information disclosure may allow bank  ing institutions to be better informed on the governance of SMEs  in order to evaluate more  adequately their credit risk. The support system for SMEs should involve support in access  ing information storage  processing and retrieval systems. The diffusion of information and  communication technologies has allowed to increase the availability and affordability of ded  icated software on standard accounting programs customized for SMEs. The improvement  of better communication with credit providers can be also achieved by providing support    10    to SMEs on business plan preparations  both for startups or for the development of existing  ﬁrms. A wellprepared business plan can serve both as a roadmap for the improvement in the  management of SMEs and as a means to assure better channels of communication between  SMEs and funds providers. It is crucial then to build up the skill base of SMEs in ﬁnancial  analysis and business plan writing. This may allow to improve credit prospects for young  small ﬁrms that lack realasset collateral  equity or do not have a credit history.    Subcontracting and networking    7. From international experience  support for interﬁrm cooperation involving SMEs can be  considered a “best practice”. These should include support for marketing in local and es  pecially international markets  associations to facilitate efﬁciencyenhancing information  sharing and help in the establishment of subcontracting networks between large and a small  ﬁrms. Support should be provided for several SMEs and it should be avoided to create a  large administrative system to implement theses policies  given their timelimited nature.    References    Allen  F. & Gale  D. (2000). Comparing Financial Systems. MIT Press.    Aoki  M.  Patrick  H. & Sheard  P. (1994). The Japanese Main Bank System  An Introductory  Overview. In M. Aoki & H. Patrick (Eds.)  The Japanese Main Bank System. Oxford  Oxford  University Press.    Aoyama  Y. (1999). Policy Interventions for Industrial Network Formation  Contrasting Historical  Underppinnings of the Small Business Policy in Japan and the United States. Small Business  Economics  12  217–231.    Dollar  D.  HallwardDriemeier  M.  Shi  A.  Wallsten  S.  Wang  S. & Xu  L. C. (2003).    Im  proving the Investment Climate in China. Investment climate assessment  World Bank and  International Finance Corporation.    Friedman  D. (1988). The Misunderstood Miracle  Industrial Development and Political Change    in Japan. Ithaca  Cornell University Press.    Hall  B. & Weinstein  D. (2000). Main Banks  Creditor Concentration  and the Resolution of Finan  cial Distress in Japan. In M. Aoki & G. Saxonhouse (Eds.)  Governance and Competitiveness  in Japan. Oxford  Oxford University Press.    Hanazaki  M. & Horiuchi  A. (2000). Is Japan’s Financial Systeem Efﬁcient. Oxford Review of    Economic Policy  16(2)  61–73.    Hoshi  T.  Kashyap  A. & Scharfstein  D. (1990). The Role of Banks in Reducing the Costs of    Financial Distress in Japan. Journal of Financial Economics  27  67–88.    11    Hoshi  T.  Kashyap  A. & Scharfstein  D. (1991). Corporate Structure  Liquidity and Investment     Evidence from Japanese Industrial Groups. Quarterly Journal of Economics  106  33–60.    International Finance Corporation (2000). China’s Emerging Private Enterprises. Washington     D.C.    Itoh  M. & Urata  S. (1994). Small and MediumSize Entreprise Support Policies in Japan. Policy  Research Working Paper 1403  The World Bank  Policy Research Department  Finance and  Private Sector Development Division.    Kanamori  T. (2004). Fiscal Reform in the People’s Republic of China  Current Issues and Future    Agenda. Research Paper 55  Asian Development Bank Institute.    Kanamori  T. & Zhao  Z. (2004). Private Sector Development In the People’s Republic of China.    Asian Development Bank Insitute.    Kim  J. H. (1991). Liberalization  Subcontracting and Reorganization. Korea Development Insti    tute  Seoul.    Kim  L. & Nugent  J. B. (1994). The Republic of Korea’s Small and MediumSized Enterprises and  Their Support Systems. Policy Research Working Paper 1404  The World Bank  Washington  D.C.    Kim  L. & Nugent  J. B. (1999). Korean SMEs and Their Support Systems. In B. Levy  A. Berry  & J. B. Nugent (Eds.)  Fulﬁlling the Export Potential of Small and Medium Firms. Boston   Kluwer.    Mu  Y. (2002). Impediments for SME Access to Finance and Credit Guarantee Schems in China.    Financial Sector Operations and Policy Department  The World Bank.    Nugent  J. B. & Yhee  S.J. (2001). Small and Medium Enterprises in Korea  Achievements     Constraints and Policy Issues. World Bank Institute  Washington D.C.    People Republic of China (2000). Guarantee Law of the People Republic of China. Foreign    Languages Press.    Sheard  P. (1994). Main Banks and the Governance of Financial Distress. In M. Aoki & H. Patrick    (Eds.)  The Japanese Main Bank System. Oxford  Oxford University Press.    Suzuki  K. & Cobham  D. (2005). Recent Trends in the Sources of Finance for Japanese Firms  Has  Japan Become a ‘High Internal Finance’ Country? Discussion Paper Series 0501  University  of St. Andrews  School of Economics and Finance  Scotland.    Ueda  K. (1994). Institutional and Regulatory Frameworks for the Main Bank System. In M. Aoki    & H. Patrick (Eds.)  The Japanese Main Bank System. Oxford University Press.    Weinstein  D. & Yafeh  Y. (1998). On the Costs of a Bankcentred Financial System  Evidence    from the Changing Main Bank Relationships in Japan. Journal of Finance  53  635–72.    12    Womack  P.  Jones  D. T. & Roos  D. (1990). The Machine that Changed the World the World.    New Yokk  Rawson Associates.    Wood  C. (1992). The Bubble Economy  Japan’s Extraordinary Speculative Boom of the ’80’s and    the Dramatic Bust of the ’90’s. The Atlantic Monthly Press.    13    