here  in file  Top 10 Retail Banking Trends and  Predictions for 2018    SUBSCRIBE NOW  GET  THE FINANCIAL BRAND NEWSLETTER FOR FREE   SIGN UP NOW    This massive annual report combines the results of a major global research  study with insights crowdsourced from a panel of 100 financial services  influencers  industry analysts and banking providers.    By Jim Marous  CoPublisher of  The Financial Brand and Owner/Publisher of the  Digital Banking Report    For the seventh consecutive year  we have surveyed a panel of over 100  global financial services leaders for their thoughts on retail banking and  credit union trends and predictions. The crowdsource panel includes  bankers  credit union executives  industry analysts  advisors  authors and  fintech followers from Asia  Africa  North America  South and Central  America  Europe  the Middle East and Australia.    We used the findings from our panel as the foundation to develop a  global survey of executives involved in the financial services industry which provided a  prioritization of our trends. Our global survey also provided an opportunity to do an endofyear  review of last year’s projections. Finally  the survey collected insight into strategic priorities for  2018 and the fintech players that the industry believes will have the greatest impact in the  upcoming year.    By collecting insights from leading influencers  ranking the trends using an industry survey  and  including extensive analysis around each trend  we have developed the most comprehensive  annual trend report in the banking industry. For the third consecutive year  the research  analysis  and Digital Banking Report entitled  2018 Retail Banking Trends and Predictions  are  sponsored by Kony  Inc.. The report will be available right after Christmas.    Top 10 Retail Banking Trends for 2018    The ranking of the top 10 trends and predictions was done by providing a list of trends identified  by our crowdsourced panel and asking banks  credit unions and the supplier community globally  to provide their top 3 predictions for 2018. Of the organizations that provided their top 3 trends   the highest ranking prediction was that the industry was going to remove friction from the    customer journey (61%). The next two most mentioned trends were the improved use of data and  advanced analytics  and refinements in multichannel delivery (mentioned by 57% and 42%  respectively).    Interestingly  with the exception of one trend (testing and use of blockchain technology)  the  trends and order of these trends were the same as last year. Last year’s trend of investment in  innovation did not make the top 10 this year. The importance and underlying components of each  trend differed in this year’s research compared to the predictions for 2017.    The fact that the list of trends identified by the financial services industry has remained relatively  consistent could be a symptom of a greater problem. The banking industry is moving much too  slow  and legacy firms are failing to differentiate themselves. According to Forrester  “In a market  where onethird of all customers say ‘all banks are basically the same ’ it would make sense for  executives and their teams to obsess over how to differentiate. Unfortunately  2018 will look more  like a digital arms race between warring incumbents than a year in which firms find new ways to  specialize and create value for customers.”    Regarding changes in emphasis for this year’s trends  removing friction from the customer  journey increased in importance from last year  with 61% of organizations placing this trend in the  top three  compared to 54% last year. The trend around the use and application of data also  increased in importance from last year  with 57% of those surveyed placing this in the top 3 for  2018  compared to 53% in predictions for 2017. Other notable shifts of importance included a  greater belief that open banking APIs would be important  less emphasis on regulatory changes  and a greater belief that advanced technology would have an impact in 2018.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    Top 10 Strategic Priorities for 2018    When we asked financial services organizations worldwide about their top three strategic priorities  for 2018  there was a significant change in priorities compared to last year’s research. While the  order of the top three priorities remained the same as last year  the priority of reducing operating  costs dropped from 41% last year to only 32% for 2018. At the same time  the priority of  investment in innovation dropped from the 4th position to 7th  with the number of firms  mentioning innovation falling from 26% to 22%.    The biggest jumps in strategic priority in 2018 were seen with the emphasis on automating core  business processes (up 13%) and recruiting talent (up 8%). These shifts illustrate the growing  importance of becoming a digital bank and the impact of this transformation on the types of  employees required to address new challenges.    Here is what some of our crowdsource panel had to say about 2018.    “2018 will see developments across the banking industry  including a more mature  application of fintech solutions  greater use of digital payments  the opening up of  banking thanks to API built architectures  the first significant progress with  blockchain technology  and the harnessing of AI and RPA solutions. These changes  will all occur as global tech giants (including those from China) change the financial  services battleground.”    – Roberto Ferrari  Chief Digital and Innovation Officer at Mediobanca Group    “Financial institutions have spent the last few years painting the vision of what it means to be a digital bank. In  2018  we’ll see a significant shift from optimization ​ streamlining and automation – to creating new revenue  streams. This revenue may come from new business models or simply new products and services  but it signals  a recognition that simply doing the same things better is no longer enough.”  – Nicole Sturgill  Principal Executive Advisor at CEB now Gartner    “Investing in new skill sets will be critical. The digital talent gap is only widening and  organizations that can’t keep pace will be crippled by it. Now more than ever  the right talent is  truly a competitive advantage.”  – Danielle Guzman  Global Head of Social Media and Distributed Content at Mercer    “2018 will see a radical change in how traditional financial institutions approach digital  transformation.  The Chief Digital Officer concept will be replaced as companies seek to embed  digital transformation ​ for both customer value proposition and business model transformation ​  into the roles and expectations for every job in the organization and every initiative undertaken.   Digital management  much like risk management in recent years  will become everyone¹s job.   This will launch a wave of transformation  especially in traditional banking.”  – Mary Beth Sullivan  Managing Partner of Capital Performance Group    “2018 will be an amazing year in banking. The debate on cryptocurrencies will rage  on  with jurisdictions legalizing and defining ICO token issuance and definitions  around cryptocurrency use. Regulators will increasingly compete for dollars  talent  and fintech innovation through more open banking and fintech licensing provisions   putting markets like the US further behind the eight ball on basic capabilities like  payments and challenger models. Blockchain POCs will move to implementation   neobanks will start to go global  and global technology experiences surfacing bank  and credit utility will start to emerge that undermine traditional charters.”    – Brett King  CEO and Founder of Moven and author of Bank 4.0    Regarding the use of an industry leading group of financial services industry influencers  Jay  Palter  Chief Engagement Officer at Jay Palter Social Advisory  said     “As technological innovation accelerates and financial systems globalize  social networks (such as  LinkedIn  Twitter and Facebook) have emerged as indispensable and efficient tools for following  key developments and insights from thought leaders. Knowing who you need to follow and pay  attention to online is more important than ever.”    1. Removing Friction from the Customer Journey    While the banking industry has talked about ‘customercentricity’ and  ‘improving the customer experience’ for decades  most organizations have  had difficulty breaking down product silos or leveraging internal data to  deliver a contextual digital experience. “Longterm sustainable growth in the  banking industry seems only possible with a radical departure from a sales  and productobsessed mindset to one of genuine customer centricity  and  further rationalization of strategies to target the right markets  customer segments  and solutions ”  states Deloitte.    According to the 85page report  Improving the Customer Experience in Banking  the objective  of delivering a positive customer experience has become secondary to other bank priorities   resulting in a transactional banking relationship for the customer. For financial organizations to  change this dynamic  and meet the evolving needs of today’s customers  there are five areas that  have emerged as crucial priorities     1.  Move focus of digital engagement from cost reduction to experience enhancement.  2.  Leverage advanced analytics  machine learning and contextual engagement to provide a    highly personalized experience.    3.  Allow the consumer to engage with their bank on the channels they prefer at the times they    want to engage.    4.  Transition advisory and sales activities from being reactive to being proactive.  5.  Engage endtoend throughout the customer journey  from shopping to account opening  to    onboarding and through relationship expansion.    A positive customer experience is channel sensitive  with customers placing a higher weight on  digital customer experiences more than physical or call center channels. In fact  in a recent J.D.  Power  survey  the largest banking organizations improved in overall customer satisfaction  while  midsize banks declined and regional banks plateaued. This was attributed primarily to improved  mobile and online satisfaction.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    As the banking industry responds to the “Age of the Individual”  big data and advanced analytics  will define the winners from the losers. It is critical for banks and credit unions to deliver on the  personalization promise to win the battle of having the best customer experience.    How customer insight is used can make a big difference to the customer experience – and  ultimately to the profitability of the organization. The right information  analyzed in the right way   can ensure that the financial institution can provide the right offer at the right time – along with a  seamless service at a lower cost. And that has to be good for everyone involved.    “Financial companies need to introduce experiences that are more like Tinder and  Instagram rather than the traditional services they provide today. It’s not just digital  innovation or transformation  where banks can compete for the future  it’s also  about reinventing dated policies  processes and products for new and more  discerning generations of connected consumers. UX design strategies and principles  and humancentered design belongs in the CSuite now more than ever.”    – Brian Solis  Principal Analyst and Futurist at Altimeter Group  a Prophet company    “Most forwardlooking banks have realized that a purely customeroriented experience will never  enable a really defensible differentiation towards competitors. Huge customerdriven programs  have helped provide “errorfree” transactional experiences to their customers  but this isn’t  enough. Organizations must activate structured topdown initiatives to detail the brand promise  across every touchpoint and frontline behavior  with the final goal to create a deep and durable  alignment with the human side of their customers – moving from ‘customer experience’ to ‘human  experience’.”  – Ambrogio Terrizzano  European Financial Services Lead at Accenture    “We are about to tear down product silos that confuse customers and get focused on being  relevant  convenient and frictionless. Our new gotomarket will be driven by attention and  engagement. The winners will be the most efficient at manufacturing and the most effective at  engaging. Ecosystems will win beyond single individual providers.”  – Nigel Walsh  Partner at Deloitte UK    “Human first  The core of banking and insurance is social – not the abundant technology but  understanding human behavior and decision making will be relevant to differentiate and design a  superior value proposition.”  – Andreas Staub  Managing Partner at Fehr Advice    “2018 will bring more capabilities for shifting more control of one’s finances from banks   merchants  or processors to the enduser. These highly intuitive  trustcreating controls will  ultimately drive higher spend  loyalty  and trust  with lower misuse.”  – Jim Van Dyke  Founder and CEO of Futurion.Digital    “The banks that have done the hard work of changing their internal culture in order  to welcome and foster change and elevate the experience will retain the relationship  with the consumer and will compete successfully with new entrants whether they  are new challenger banks or the big tech firms (GAFA).”    – Duena Blomstrom  Chief Growth Officer  Marketplace at Temenos    “The great opportunity of 2018 will be to align crossfunctional teams around an early stage  adaptive and collaborative process (using agile and scrum road mapping). To move rapidly from a  myopic operational and technology focus to working from the ‘outsidein’  letting targeted  customer segments/persona needs  pain points and lifestyle triggers guide and inform strategy   experience design and personalized content and tailored new products.”  – Mark Weber  CEO of Weber Marketing Group    “Mobile will be at the center of the customer experience in 2018. Voice banking will become more  prevalent  especially for customers of larger banks  while smaller community banks will continue  to work to catch up  adding more mobile banking options that remove friction and improve  functionality.”  – Lori Philo Cook  Owner of InnovoMarketing    “2018 will be the year of bringing human connection to the forefront of the customer experience.  Whether through digital  voice or face to face  financial services firms will improve on the delivery  of the most fundamental of human needs  to connect with customers  let them know they have  been heard  acknowledged and understood.”  – Joe Sullivan  CEO of Market Insights  Inc.    “Mobile banking will continue to accelerate past standard banking in customer  preference as their digital  user  and customer experiences become more enriched    and datainformed. This will include consumertobusiness frictionless digital  banking  consumertoconsumer oneclick payments  new cryptocurrency  opportunities  passwordfree biometrics  locational services and offers  and  conversational interfaces.”    – Kirk D. Borne  Principal Data Scientist and Executive Advisor at Booz Allen Hamilton    “Banks will increase experimentation with chatbots and interactive assistants to find ways to  interact with customers in a more meaningful way and to provide a better customer experience.  The focus will shift to evolving these experiences by integrating more sophisticated data to gain  insight  using machine learning to understand and predict what a customer may need  and  deploying bots that can help their agents do their jobs better.”  – Tiffani Montez  Senior Analyst at Aite Group    2. Expanding Use of Data and Advanced Analytics    Over the past 18 months  the Digital Banking Report has seen a growing  gap between the organizations that are embracing the power of  contextual insights and the potential of digital transformation vs. those  that continue doing things the same way they have in the past. There is  no reason to see this gap narrowing in 2018.    Bestinclass financial institutions will apply advanced analytics and  artificial intelligence to increase automation  improve personalization   reduce costs  enhance the customer experience and even assist with compliance. The potential  of advanced analytics grows exponentially over time. Each iteration  additional data source and  performance measurement results in learning that enhances the accuracy of the predictive  models. It also allows organizations to refine data sources as opposed to simply adding more and  more data.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    Finally  with each iteration  predictability goes up while costs can go down  improving marketing  efficiency. From the customer’s perspective  the messaging in more “on target ” improving the  customer experience  satisfaction and lifetime value.    According to David Gerbino  Principal of @dmgconsulting  “Financial institutions that effectively  leverage data and advanced analytics across the enterprise will be in a position to capitalize on  newer technologies such as machine learning and automation. Those firms who fall behind will  need to quickly overcome barriers that are preventing them from enjoying the benefits of  advanced analytics or they will find themselves too far behind to catch up.”    “Many banks have built their core operations on fragmented systems aligned to  products. This has distributed customer data across multiple platforms  and banks  recognize that they cannot use AI effectively on data spread across the business. As  a result  organizations will develop strategies for building an Enterprise Data  Architecture in 2018 which rationalizes and cleanses their fragmented data stores.”    – Chris Skinner  CEO at The Finanser  Ltd.    “2018 we will see tech and datadriven leaders being appointed into clevel positions in the  financial services industry. This will occur because advisory board  shareholders and established    CEOs recognize that the new era of customercentric digital ecosystems demand leadership with  a digital and techdriven mindset.”  – Dr  Robin Kiera  Fintech  Insurtech  Digitalization Speaker and Influencer    “Machine Learning applications will continue to mature  with each vendor featuring a domain  specific solution. Organizations will work towards fully integrated  endtoend data management  platforms to handle increases in different data streams  including Deep Learning applications   transforming data into actionable insights. AI and Deep Learning applications in voice recognition  and video analytics will also accelerate.”  – Ronald Van Loon  Director at Adversitement    “A new generation of AI solutions focused on the effectiveness more than on the efficiency. Tools  able to evolve from the pull conversation to the push sales. The proactive offer of the right  product at the right time with the right message  as was done physically by the best sales for  decades. Something able to address the body of the customer base and not only the long tail of  the most rational person.”  – Matteo Carbone  Founder and Director at Connected Insurance Observatory    “Virtual replicas will move beyond industrial applications and into financial services in  2018. A digital twin will not only propose an action plan for a human to review/do  it  will intervene on its own. As cloudbased processing power rises and tools become  more operative  running behavioral digital twin simulations will become more  prevalent.”    – Mike Quindazzi  Managing Director at PwC    “In 2018  organizations will embrace more automation and AI to provide a better experience for  customers across digital channels and to empower employees with the tools and knowledge they  need to improve their performance.”  – Jenni Palocsik  Director of Solutions Marketing at Verint    “AI will become a necessity for financial services to deliver better experiences  lower costs   reduce risks and increase revenue – providing a competitive edge. Most firms will need to  evaluate a buy/partner decision to deploy solutions such as chatbots  biometrics  fraud and voice  or else fall further behind.”  – Dennis Gada  Regional Head  Financial Services at Infosys    “Artificial Intelligence (AI) will start to bear fruit  supporting more complicated use  cases for older adults such as decumulation and financial planning for longevity. The  combination of advanced analytics  Internet of Things (IoT)  and big data will allow  banking to be more seamlessly integrated into our daily routine  transforming voice  into the new UI.”    – Theodora Lau  Director of Market Innovation at AARP    “Anticipatory UIs will grow as a result of natural language processing and AI  prompting a shift in  customer interaction from pull (the customer having to trigger the interaction with the bank)  to    push (the bank initiating the interaction in a noninvasive way).”  – Paolo Barbesino  SVP and Head of Digital at Unicredit    “With many organizations searching for deposits  those that do not have a sound datacleansing  and enriching process  combined with a datadriven acquisition and retention strategy  backed by  a marketing automation platform  will find themselves on the losing end of 2018. Marketing teams  and technology teams will need to be in 100% alignment going into this year.”  – John Waupsh  Chief Innovation Officer at Kasasa    “Data will reach a point of critical mass not in terms of volume  but in organization   collation  correlation and democratic distribution. This will not just empower real  time or strategic decision making (“if this  then that”)  but also determine long term  road maps  capacity planning  customization of products and services for new  acquisition and revenue channels  and critically cost management. Data will be the  constant atmosphere in which we work and breath  rather than the ‘lake’ or  ‘warehouse’ we visit.”    – Rob Findlay  Managing Director at Accenture Interactive and Founder of  Next Money    “Many financial institutions will attempt to roll out tools powered by artificial intelligence and many  will fail due to a lack of clean and usable data. Leading institutions will focus on getting their data  organized  accessible  and clean  building a solid foundation to ultimately win the race toward AI.”  – Matt West  Global Strategic Account Executive at MX    “Could data scientists be last year’s hot occupation? Software could reduce the demand   integrating deep learning and code into packages that detect fraud  improve targeting  etc.  Software goes where there’s demand — look for more data science expertise to be deployed as  software.”  – Tom Groenfeldt  Writer for Forbes    “Banks must continue to gain a deep understanding of their customers or they will  fall further behind. Transaction analytics and data categorization are the foundation  of all datadriven initiatives. If financial institutions cannot categorize their data and  identify the right audience  they will find it difficult to move forward in more  advanced areas such as AI  Virtual Assistants and Customer Journey Mapping.”    – Rob Heiser  President and CEO of Segmint    3. Improving Multichannel Delivery    Banks and credit unions will see less than half their customers face to  face in 2018. Instead  an increasingly digital customer base will use self  service touchpoints as a first point of contact  only reaching out to  contactcenter agents or branches for the most complex engagements.  This movement of transactional interactions to digital channels will mean  that branch and contactcenter interactions are more important than ever  in building human relationships with customers.    Winning financial services organizations will provide all customer contact personnel with the  digital tools required to access answers quicker  and will invest higher trained personnel who are  better equipped to use these tools and present high value responses to inquiries.    The traditional definition of convenience in banking has revolved around the proximity of the  branch. With the growth in digital technology and the increased acceptance of online and mobile  banking  access to banking products and transactions is no longer tethered to a physical location   resulting in a redefinition of convenience. Today  while convenience is still the primary driver of  initial consideration  the importance of branches in that definition has gone down.    Novantas found the correlation between ‘perceived convenience’ and ‘consideration’ to be slightly  stronger than the correlations between ‘perceived convenience’ and ‘purchase’  with both being  very strong. The biggest news is that the drivers of ‘perceived convenience’ start with an  organization’s digital capabilities. In fact  the importance of branchcentric factors have dropped in  each of the past three years of the study. This is especially true for consumers aged 1854.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    Aligned with the preference to shop digitally  there has been a corresponding increase in the  preference to open accounts digitally  according to Novantas. Over a third of consumers prefer to  open their account digitally  with the number being significantly higher (46%) if the consumer  shopped using digital channels exclusively. In fact  the mobile channel has replaced other  channels as the centerpiece of the banking relationship.    “In 2018  mobile will surpass desktop as the top digital channel for retail bank  account opening. Consumers will move from just browsing to actually buying  financial products from their phones. This move will be supported by superior  security from mobile  vastly improved customer interfaces  and the convenience of  offhours access that mobile provides.”    – Don Bergal  CMO at Avoka    “Operational processes and technology infrastructure created for branchcentric workflows will  become the limiting factor for adequately serving digitalfirst customers. Institutions will be forced  to migrate from digitizing selfservice to providing exceptional service digitally.”  – Wade Arnold  Advisor at BillGo    “Advertisers will realize that context does count. While they’ve appreciated the precision targeting  of social platforms  there will be a growing appreciation in 2018 that the trustworthiness of the  content on each platform has a big impact on their brand message.”  – Jennifer Grazel  Global Director  Vertical Marketing for LinkedIn    “One of the biggest trends is clicks to bricks. We are working with many of our clients to connect  the online digital experience to the traditional branch experience with the use of tablet friendly   open branch workflow experience for loans and deposits.”  – Kyle Kehoe  President  Action Division of CRIF Lending Solutions    “The emergence of Gen Z (born 1996 and after) will underscore the urgency for small and mid  sized institutions to accelerate their digital evolution; both in terms of customer experience and  workplace culture. As this constantlyconnected generational cohort enters adulthood  their digital  preferences (e.g. mobileonly  immediacy  personalization  security) and pragmatic  independent  personalities will challenge financial service managers and marketers alike.”  – Jim Perry  Consultant and Strategist for Market Insights    “2018 will see banks getting much more serious about digitizing their current analog  processes with a particular focus on their commercial customers and on mobile.  Loan processing  account opening  service subscriptions  problem resolution and  onetomany payments are all examples of current processes that are ripe to be  reimagined in order to gain speed  efficiency  and scale.”    – Chris Nichols  Chief Strategy Officer at CenterState Bank    “Especially for emerging markets around the world  there will be increased importance of the  mobile channel and increasingly the growth of smartphones changing access to banking (and  financial services in general). The use of new ways to interact with customers  and increasingly  the use of chatbots  will be a key trend.”  – John Owens  Senior Advisor for Digital Financial Advisory Services    “Financial institutions will pull back from dramatic changes and take a more practical approach to  the industry’s challenges  such as service delivery and channel utilization. With 2018 being the  year of small business banking  there will be increased investment in technology (or partnering  with fintech firms) to simplify business loan processes  using branch staffs for selling these  services.”  – David Kerstein  Founder of Peak Performance Group    4. Embracing PSD2 and Open API Banking    While APIs are not new to banking and are nothing more than a structure  for how software applications should interact  they provide the gateway for  innovative  contextual solutions that would be difficult to offer without Open  Banking. As outlined by the World Retail Banking Report 2017  published by  Capgemini in conjunction with  Efma  there are three types of APIs     1.  Private APIs  These are APIs that are used within the traditional    banking organization  reducing friction and enhancing operational efficiency. A vast majority  (88%) of banks viewed private APIs as essential in 2015.    2.  Partner APIs  These are usually between a bank and specific thirdparty partners  enabling    the expansion of product lines  channels  etc.    3.  Open APIs  In this scenario  business data is made available to third parties that many not    have a formal relationship with the bank. Because of the structure of open APIs  many  banks have a greater concern around security.    Most banks ease into the use of APIs  moving from private  to partner and sometimes to open  APIs. It is believed that  over time  APIs will evolve to the more extensive options in response to  the consumer desire for greater digital solutions not currently provided by legacy organizations.  This will also occur as both fintechs and traditional banking organizations understand that they  need each others strengths. This collaboration will enable both banking organizations and fintech  firms to offer more to customers than previously possible.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    Deloitte believes there are four distinct strategic options for banks and credit unions in the future.  In two scenarios  an institution remains in control of the customer/member relationship. In the  other two  products and distribution become unbundled.    Incumbent as a fullservice provider  Incumbent as a utility  Incumbent as a supplier  Incumbent as an interface    It must be mentioned that the options are not mutually exclusive. Organizations may want to play  in multiple quadrants. For instance  they may want to be a supplier of services as well offering  products in a thirdparty interface.    Perhaps the greatest risk of open banking is that it will allow consumers and merchants to  execute direct transactions without going through banks  making it more difficult for banks to have  a full view of the customer transactions and maintain customer relationships. It is hoped that the  open banking concept can avoid this demise  as traditional banks and fintech firms work together  to build the customer’s trust and offer products and services that will improve a consumer’s  lifestyle.    The foundation of these partnerships will be the data that can be collected and cultivated for the  benefit of the customer  the bank and the fintech firms. If applied diligently  the improvement in  customer experience could be the differentiator that retains the overall banking (and nonbanking)  relationship.    “As PSDII enters in force at the beginning of the year  some truths will be revealed  about the effects of such imprecise regulation  about the misplaced expectations of  some startups  and about the real open banking strategy of the European banks.  Over the year  I expect the bumps in the road to open banking to get smoother as    new players learn to work together and deliver banking services in new ways. The  rest of the world will be watching and learning from this.”    – Andra Sonea  Solutions Architect at Anthemis Group    “The era of Open Banking is upon us. Banks have moved beyond exploration with Fintech  companies and moved towards established partnerships. This evolution will continue in 2018 as  consumers move closer to having the power to completely customize their banking relationship.”  – Matt Wilcox   SVP  Marketing Strategy and Innovation at  Fiserv    “We’ll reach peak API excitement  but despite the investment  there won’t be many success  stories from banks opening their APIs just yet as they realize its not a case of ‘build it and they  will come!’.”  – James Haycock   Managing Director at  Adaptive Lab    “The rise of open banking will force banks to decide whether they want to be the interface (in  control of the relationship)  or the pipe (providing third party ecosystems) with digitally savvy  product and systems. Big internet players will test the water and offer unbundled financial  services to support their core business (eg payment services  lending).”  – Paolo Barbesino  SVP and Head of Digital at Unicredit    “I believe 2018 will be a year of demistifying open banking driven by API  when  many institutions will start seeing it as a new channel of customer acquisition and  engagement  rather than a threat that will diminish their business.”    – Sonia Wedrychowicz  Head of Technology  Consumer Banking Group at DBS Bank    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    “I’m looking forward to U.S. specific “lessons learned” from the PSD2 enforcement in the UK. As  usual  we will bastardize the guidelines to fit our unique needs. But open banking is coming  whether we like it or not.”  – Sam Maule  Managing Director  North America at 11 FS    “2018 will be the point of no return due to PSD2. This will place banks and fintech services into  equal positions  thus taking user experience design to the forefront as the main edge of  competition.”  – Alex Kreger  CEO of UX Design Agency    “European MiFID2 and PSD2 will realize internationally the need and opportunities of digital  wealth management  accelerating all B2B and B2C wealthtech trends.”  – Paolo Sironi  Director at IBM Watson  Financial Services    “As the fintech ecosystem gets more complex and end users look for more self  service tools  the ‘platformification’ of digital banking will be a trend that will bring  consumer  business  and employee under one single solution to save money and    lower the maintenance/complexity of managing disparate systems.”    – Tom Shen  CEO of Malauzai Software    “We’ll reach peak API excitement  but despite the investment  there won’t be many success  stories from banks opening their APIs just yet as they realize its not a case of ‘build it and they  will come!’.”  – James Haycock  Managing Director at Adaptive Lab    “Open Banking will be a massive game changer. The best hope is that banks become the next  financial platform – finance 2.0 – offering consumers more choice and competition. Worst case  scenario is that the big tech giants (Google  Facebook  Apple  Amazon  etc.) will leverage their  data and open platform to dominate the market.”  – Liz Lumley  Global Fintech Commentator and Adisor to Financial Services Industry    “Open banking is the dawn of the next wave of banking like we haven’t known before. New  entrants will be able to access interesting new sources of data and make payments  and  old incumbents will be pushed to embrace the next wave of digital … with the result being  intelligent digital services either as an end to end experience or as part of a  distributed ecosystem. This is the year that David and Goliath will win  but which one wins most  is going to be the most interesting thing to see. Its way too close to call.”  – David Brear  CEO and Founder of 11 FS    “PSD2 and open banking represents a huge opportunity for change and innovation in the coming  year. Benefits will come to organizations with a PSD2ready API and regulatory permissions to  open a marketplace which collects and connects other financial services providers  all within the  banking app.”  – Anne Boden  CEO of Starling Bank    “The frontlines in the battle for the new customer will shift in 2018. Tomorrow’s  conversational commerce  AI  and big data will transform the Facebooks  Amazons   Googles  and Apples of the world into the key gateways for new customers. The  only way to compete will be through real customer insights from personas/journeys  and integration requiring API ready infrastructure.”    – Craig McLaughlin  President of Extractable    “The availability of APIs is a game changer for the industry as FIs gain the ability to decouple  from inflexible vendor development processes and take more control over customer experience.”  – Alpine Jennings  Director  Deposits at State Farm Bank    5. Building Fintech Partnerships    In the past  many traditional banking organizations looked at fintech start  ups as more of a nuisance than a threat. Today  many are viewing these  nontraditional providers as a threat as well as either a partner or potential  acquisition.    In its latest Global Fintech Report  PwC found that 88% of legacy banking organizations fear  losing revenue to financial technology companies in areas such as payments  money transfers  and personal loans. The amount of business at risk has grown to an estimated 24% of revenues.    In related DeNovo’s research from PwC  it was found that 30% of consumers plan to increase  their usage of nontraditional financial services providers  with only 39% planning to continue  using solely traditional service organizations. This is an additional wakeup call to legacy  organizations to determine how they will retain the key components of an existing banking  relationship.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    In response to this threat  82% of traditional financial organizations stated a plan to increase  collaboration with fintech companies in the next three to five years. Similarly  almost 50% of  financial services firms are planning to acquire fintech startups over the same period.    Fintech startups realize that it takes more than a great solution to attract a scalable customer  base. To reach beyond early adopters and the techsavvy takes massive amounts of capital for  promotion and product support. Partnering with an established banking organization who will  support the expansion of users among their client base seems like a logical means to an end.    Alternatively  legacy banking organizations  struggle to keep up with consumer expectations. Size   organizational structure (silos) and even traditional leadership styles hamper the ability to deliver  the new digital solutions consumers receive from other industries. Partnering with a fintech  startup alleviates some of these issues  allowing the established organization an opportunity to  keep pace with marketplace demands.    Fintech collaboration is not about grabbing for the ‘next shiny object’ — it’s about intuitive product  design  ease of use  and 24/7 accessibility.    “Vendors that create marketplaces to aggregate/integrate enterprise banking apps  and tools for banks and credit unions – will gain traction in 2018. FIs will more  easily integrate and deploy bestofbreed solutions  reduce their reliance on a single   large core provider  differentiate their offering by offering a wider range of choices to  their customers  and find effective and efficient approaches to core transformation.”    – Ron Shevlin  Director of Research at Cornerstone Advisors  Inc.    Read More  Banking Options Narrow  Partner or Acquire Fintech Firms    “Banks will put pressure on core providers to become more open and accommodating  resulting  in the core’s increasing appetite to acquire fintech  digital banking and data companies. The  cores will begin proving they can support the changing needs of the banking industry.”  – Bryan Clagett  CMO at Geezeo    “Collaboration between fintech startups and financial services organizations will heat up further   fueled by regulatory changes such as PSD2  and by industry groups like TruSight.  The  challenges of fintech firms’ scaling up and the FIs’ innovation are addressed by partnerships.   Regulatory changes should also aide in making collaborations easier.”  – Alex Jimenez  VP and Senior Strategist at Zions Bancorporation    “Banks will be more open to the idea of partnering with fintech firms  incumbent vendors  and  even competitors  and they’ll actually begin to enter into partnerships. Like any new skill   partnering will take practice  but those financial institutions that do it well will have a significant  advantage over the competition  both traditional and new.”  – Dan Latimore  SVP of Banking at Celent    “In 2018  we will see more financial institutions working together on innovation  projects. They are finally warming up to the idea that they don’t have to invent  everything in house  and that the network effect can be very valuable for certain  efforts  as we saw with Zelle in 2017. Professionally managed consortia will allow  more institutions to make up lost ground on the innovation leaders.”    – JP Nicols  Managing Director at Fintech Forge    “More core providers will begin to embrace the API  like FIS has done with Code Connect. This  will create healthy tension that exist between data aggregators  digital banking providers  and  nimble startups who all want a financial institution’s business. The net result will be cheaper and  faster collaboration between a financial institution and their chosen technology partners.”  – Keith Armstrong  CoFounder of Abe AI    “The banking industry will follow the path of the computing industry  whereby the most successful  players morphed from a build model to a buy model. The most successful banks and credit  unions will learn to better position and build their brands and enable a new era of banking by  harnessing unlimited innovation from fintech providers.”  – Don MacDonald  CMO at MX    “Fintech startups merging with more successful fintech players  or hoping to be  bought by incumbents  will be one of the biggest trends in 2018. AI and machine  learning will play an increasingly key role for the startups as well as for the  incumbents differentiating winners from losers in an increasingly competitive  environment.”    – Spiros Margaris  Founder of Margaris Advisory    “After years of aggressive costcutting due to the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis  banks will  look to partner with bank technology and fintech providers that provide solutions that can directly  impact revenue. Digital lending and account origination will be the early areas of focus.”  – David Gerbino  Principal of @dmgconsulting    “More banks will see fintech startups as an “enabler” rather than a “disruptor” and there will be  more collaborative initiatives between banks and startups. More banks will focus on digital  transformation as a key strategic agenda  rather than focusing on digital innovation in a limited  emerging technology area.”  – Makato Shibata  Head of Global Innovation at Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ    “Big retail players will realize they don’t have the technology or the reach to capture data  previously only available through financial institutions or third parties  and will collaborate more  with startups. It will be the year of Fintech for people.”  – Matteo Rizzi  CoFounder of FinTechStage Limited    “The innovation function grows up and moves from the Lab to the Factory. Bank IT teams will    meld with business and deliver new solutions by using ideation  design development and  business modeling into a complete ability to deliver customer ready solutions. This is the end of  innovation islands and will be the only way to deliver true financial services innovation.”  – Dion Lisle  VP  Head of Fintech at CapGemini    “While there has been a perceived slow down in venture capital fintech investment   startup activity  corporate partnership  investment and experimentation with smaller  technology players will not slow down in 2018. Many banks will need sherpas and  interpreters to bring these activities inside the bank to change the culture from  within.”    – Bradley Leimer  Managing Director and Head of Fintech Strategy at Explorer Advisory and  Capital    “2018 will be a year of stretching limits for fintech partnerships.Banks want bigger impact from  fintech technologies and bigger/faster results  and they will invest heavily in technologies and  tools that can create a humanlike experience across all channels. This may also be the year the  regtech space finally gets the attention it deserves.”  – Devie Mohan  CoFounder and CEO of Burnmark    “2018 will see deep integration of AI/ML into fintech and financial processes. Fintech as an  industry will mature significantly  making 2018 the year when fintech will leave puberty behind.”  – Alex Nechoroskovas  Founder of Fintech Summary    6. Expansion of Digital Payments    Despite increased adoption of digital payments  cash remains a primary form  of payment for many  especially for lowvalue transactions and by certain  demographic groups. Attributes of cash contributing to continued use include  speed  universal acceptance  anonymity  lack of fees  etc. Some emerging  markets also still lack a modern payments infrastructure while certain  cultures don’t have trust in the banking system. In other words  the reports  of the death of cash are still exaggerated.    While epayments are expected to grow at a CAGR of 17.6% from 2015 – 2019  the yearly  growth rate is expected to decrease  as more transactions move to mobile payments (m  payments). Mobile payments are expected to have a CAGR of 21.8% from 2015 – 2019  helped  by an increased proliferation of mobile devices. As with many of the payment trends  the impact  of China on growth numbers is significant.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    The integration of customer analytics  improved fraud management  dynamic wallet solutions and  other valueadded services will have a positive impact on both the consumer and the merchant. It  is expected that ongoing improvement in biometrics and secure payments will become mandatory  in the future  while integration realtime financial management solutions will become  commonplace.    Finally  as fintech firms continue to bypass traditional value chain components  traditional financial  services organizations will need to determine if they should partner with  buy or ignore these new  competitors. Given that most of the fintech activity in the payments space has targeted the most  lucrative components of the payment value chain  significant decisions are necessary.    There is no clear path to success in the new payments ecosystem  with many variables   opportunities and challenges still in an embryonic state. It does seem to be clear that success will  require collaboration between players and markets. Especially as new technologies and new  structures of solutions emerge in connection with open banking APIs  AI and big data   organizations will need to determine their best role in the new ecosystem.    In the end  the consumer and commercial marketplace will determine the winners  but there are  tremendous opportunities for firms that embrace collaboration of insight and solutions to develop  an improved valueadded proposition that can address the need for speed  insight and security.    “With the fastpaced development of applications  technology and recent upgrades  to Apply Pay  we can expect mobile payments to continue to grow at a rapid pace.  With the surge of Cyber Security data breaches on the rise  it will be essential that  these mobile payment applications and systems be put through vigorous security  tests performed by thirdparty auditors.”  – Michael Fisher  Fulltime Analyst at TechCPU    “Adoption of alternative payment technologies will expand exponentially as consumers ditch cash  for the convenience and security of emerging payment methods including contactless payments   digital wallets and biometric verification.”  – Todd Linden  CEO of Paysafe Group    “With most larger U.S. banks utilizing the Zelle platform  we will start to see a tremendous  acceleration to digital payments  especially P2P. The benefit of having a common set of rails  across the majority of the largest banks in the U.S.  allowing seamless payments to the majority  of U.S. banking clients  cannot be overemphasized. Watch out cash!”  – James Anthos  SVP and Director of Strategic Planning at BB&T    “PayPal and Venmo will see major competition with the continued roll out of Zelle and the move  to (near) realtime payments transfer. All solutions will likely continue to grow  but it will be  interesting to see if Zelle is able to penetrate into known Venmo demographics.”  – Chris Fleischer  Director at Fiserv    “2018 will see the consumer adoption of P2P payments accelerate to the point that this way of  payment becomes a serious alternative to existing payment methods such as cash and cards.”  – Ron van Wezel  Senior Analyst at Aite Group    “2018 will see the first deployments of realtime retail payments platforms  powered exclusively by mobile phone access. Driven by financial inclusion  these  superscalable and ultra lowcost platforms will connect mobile wallets to  institutional payers and merchants  as well as traditional bank accounts. These  platforms will also enable easy access to payments for the new applications of the  future  such as the solar battery leasing companies  transport companies and    others.”    – Konstantin Peric  Deputy Director of Financial Services at Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation    7. Navigating Compliance and Regulatory Changes    Similar to what we saw in 2017  most banks and credit unions worldwide  are continuing to do business under a cloud of regulatory uncertainty that is  expected to a challenge for the foreseeable future. Even though lawmakers  and regulators aren’t expected to make many definitive changes  most  financial institutions continue to do their best to meet risk and compliance  parameters and supervisory expectations.    Since most institutions realize that they don’t have the ability to wait to see how things will  eventually end up  many banking organizations are making progress  trying to keep in alignment  with what is anticipated from a risk and business perspective. As one banker stated this past  year  we are in a position to ‘beg for forgiveness’ rather than ‘asking for permission.’    According to Deloitte  “Banking organizations need to keep moving forward as planned  with  deliberate linkage between regulatory strategy; business strategy; and building infrastructure for  governance  regulatory reporting  and risk management that scales and is flexible.The good news  is that many of the changes banking organizations are currently implementing make good sense  from a business perspective—not just a regulatory perspective—and are worth doing no matter  how the future unfolds.”    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report  “Regulatory and consumer attitudes to data protection  controls  and data sharing  are undergoing important changes in many markets around the world  and especially  in Europe (e.g. PSD2 and GDPR). Managing customer consent for data usage and  data sharing is rapidly becoming a critical skill for banks. While regulatory  compliance matters  forwardlooking banks will be thinking beyond compliance and  seeking to turn customer consent into a valuable asset..”    – Zilvinas Bareisis  Senior Analyst at Celent    “The complexities and nuances of data management  privacy and security will come to a head for  financial institutions and fintech. Both will need to assure data platforms are designed around the  principles of transparency and trust  as governments role in oversight continues to evolve.”  – Bryan Clagett  CMO of Geezeo    “The most exciting activities in banking are happening in Asian markets  where commerce and  financial services are blending within new everyday customer experiences and where government  regulatory activities are encouraging and directly involved in innovation. The policies of the U.S.    and Western Europe need to more rapidly evolve or else the banking and technology centers of  innovation will continue to shift eastward.”  – Bradley Leimer  Managing Director and Head of Fintech Strategy at Explorer Advisory and  Capital    “I worry about FIs response to regulators’ review of sales practices in the wake of Wells Fargo.  Especially at a time when alternative service providers are expanding. Banks can illafford an  overreaction here.”  –Alpine Jennings  Director  Deposits at State Farm Bank    8. Exploring Advanced Technologies    At a time when most organizations are still playing catchup  a new wave  of digital technology has the potential to change the way organizations  deliver banking services even further. These new technologies include  artificial intelligence (AI)  the internet of things (IoT)  blockchain  open  banking platforms with application program interfaces (APIs) and robotic  process automation (RPA).    With the potential to increase efficiency  decrease costs and enhance the customer experience   these digitalenabled technologies will result in disruption of the way people do their banking and  potentially what organizations deliver these services. We are already seeing organizations testing  many of these digital technologies  hoping to win the battle to become the ‘bank of the future.’    As quickly as past technologies have become the norm  a new wave of emerging technologies  will combine digital technologies and the power of data to set new standards. According to PwC   these ‘essential eight’ technologies include     The Internet of Things (IoT)  Artificial Intelligence (AI)  Robotics  3D Printing  Augmented Reality  Virtual Reality  Drones  Blockchain    Obviously  the prioritization and investment in each of these technologies will vary based on the  industry  business model and strategic goals of each organization. For instance  while the  marketplace as a whole does not foresee investing much in blockchain technology  the financial  services industry ranks this as a high priority.    That said  investment in emerging technologies as a percentage of overall technology investment  has not increased since 2007 (across industries). In fact  the share of the overall technology  budget that is allocated to emerging technology is only 17.8%  according to the PwC research.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    Especially for the financial services industry  it is imperative to think beyond individual emerging  technologies. With the advent of open banking APIs as a way to bring external technologies and  innovations directly to banking customers  and the emergence of nontraditional banking  ecosystems that may include nonbanking services  combinations of technologies will become the  norm.    For instance  the use of customer data insights and advanced analytics may be combined with  IoT technologies to allow payments directly from smart home devices. Likewise  the the expanded  use of conversational AI and VR devices may come together  providing methods of banking    interactions only imagined in scifi movies.    Being a leader in emerging technology is no longer a luxury only for the big players. It is  important for all financial organizations to make emerging technology a ‘core competency ’ with  engagement throughout the organization (not just the very top). In addition  the focus of every  implementation much be both internal and external human experiences  as opposed to revenue   profit and cost savings.    “Artificial Intelligence is an ‘event horizon’ for financial services. You just cannot  speculate on what is beyond the introduction of true AI in the financial sector. Why?  Because the customers will have robots too. How exactly will the bank’s robot go  about selling a pension to my robot? My robot couldn’t care less about the free pen   the nice advertisement on television or the reassuring mahogany in the advisor’s  office.”    – David Birch  Director of Innovation at Consult Hyperion    “The most exciting of technology trend  as it enables unprecedented speed of innovation and  requires a severe cultural change  is the DevOps evolution of many banks. This may be the  single most important change to banking in the next few years.”  –Duena Blomstrom  Chief Growth Officer  Marketplace at Temenos    “In 2018  chatbots will become mainstream and grow out of the bankowned channels (e.g.   bank’s website  internet banking  mobile banking) and into the conversational platforms customers  use most often. These platforms include messaging apps (e.g.  Facebook Messenger  LINE  etc)  and personal intelligent assistants (e.g.  Google Assistant  Amazon Alexa  etc.).”  – Danny Tang  Channel Transformation Leader  Global Banking at IBM    “I see 2018 as a year of wide application of AIdriven solutions that will be mostly  voicedriven  fast development of biometric authentication with special focus on  facial recognition and voice  as well as a boom of commercial applications of  blockchain  especially in SME and trade finance areas.”    – Sonia Wedrychowicz  Head of Technology  Consumer Banking Group at DBS Bank    “Virtual (VR)  augmented (AR)  and mixed reality (MR) will enable a 4th wave of computing power  via a spatial computing revolution that integrates disruptive technologies such as sensors  Big  Data  the cloud  AI  and wearables. Together with other innovation accelerators – AI  robotics  Big  Data  and wearables – AR/VR/MR will drive efficiencies  transform established sectors  and  create new business opportunities.”  – Dennis Gada  Regional Head  Financial Services at Infosys    9. Competing with New Challengers    Modestsized fintech firms and large tech giants continue to make retail  banking inroads worldwide  providing services that leverage the best in  digital technology to deliver a customer experience that removes  cumbersome steps from both routine and more involved banking  engagements. Relative financial newcomers like AliPay (China)  WeChat  (China)  Rakuten (Japan)  Atom (UK)  Monzo (UK)  Starling (UK)  N26  (Germany) and Revolut (UK) have joined household names like PayPal   Amazon and Google to disrupt the banking ecosystem  leveraging modern infrastructures and  innovative cultures.    According to Bain  “Many of the tech giants possess the ingredients of success  digital prowess   large customer bases  organizations well versed in improving the customer experience  and  ample leeway to extend their corporate brands into banking.” More concerning may be that some  of these firms are generating a level of trust previously reserved only for traditional banks and  credit unions. As a result  an increasing percentage of consumers are willing to use financial  products offered from these nontraditional firms – especially where the experience is superior to  that offered by legacy organizations.    It is expected that demand for products and services from fintech firms and large tech companies  will only increase as more consumers become familiar with new digital offerings. This is  especially true for younger consumers  who have grown up with digital devices. More and more   people will get annoyed when they’re forced by bank policies and processes to use nondigital  channels for everyday banking business  states the Bain research. This includes rudimentary  transactions as well as being able to open new accounts or apply for loans.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    The best way to prepare for the inevitable increase in competition that the continued expansion of  banking services offered by Amazon  Google  PayPal  Facebook and an increasing number of  startup banks will bring is to be proactive in the development of personalized digital solutions.  This will most likely involve new partnerships inside and outside of traditional banking  organizations and a redefinition of what a banking ecosystem includes.    In other words  if banks don’t reorient their approach and radically accelerate their rate of  progress  loyalty will suffer  and they will watch technology firms poach more business.  Meanwhile  their economics will erode as too many routine transactions continue to flow through  expensive branch and callcenter networks.    There is a great advantage in the customer and member insights that traditional financial  institutions possess. The key is to apply these insights in ways that directly and positively impact  the digital experience  similar to how large tech firms currently improve shopping  social  search  and payments.    “The most significant change in the financial services industry next year will be the  entry of 4th gen competitors. Not banks  not fintech firms  and not tech giants  but  leftfield players challenging banking indirectly with their own virtual currency  ecosystems. Expect plays from the likes of Lego  Starbucks  Disney  McDonalds  Coca  Cola  Shell & Budweiser.”    – Chris Gledhill  CEO and CoFounder of Secco    “In 2018  we will see one of the tech platform players (Amazon  Alibaba  Tencent  Baidu  Google   Microsoft  Facebook  etc ) make a move in Fintech that will make all existing FinTech startup  innovations look futile.”  – Peter Vander Auwera  Founder  Petervan Productions    “In 2018  open banking will move forward significantly in some markets. At the same time  firms  such as Alipay will expand internationally  with both Alipay and Amazon pushing their payment  solutions and getting into lending and other services.”  – Alain Enault  General Manager and Program Director at Efma    “Ecommerce and payments giants from China (Tencent  Alibaba) will make significant inroads in  the U.S. market  raising the stakes for Amazon and WalMart  and just about everybody in the  payments space. Consumers will benefit from new digitalenabled experiences  simplified  payment options  and heightened competition.”  – Steven Ramirez  President of Beyond the Arc    “2018 will see a US fintech get a full bank charter. Whether it’s with the OCC fintech  charter  or SoFi is succesful in getting an industrial bank charter  it will happen one  way or another. .”    – Bryan Yurcan  Senior Writer at The American Banker    “Insurance will stay on top of fintech trends in 2018  as the industry faces a challenge to  generate and collect more data on customers. We will see more incumbants developing  ecosystems of tech/startups/partnerships around them to build the next insurance generation and  better compete with new players (GAFABATX).”  – Florian Graillot  Partner at astorya.vc    10. Testing Blockchain Technologies    Satoshi Nakamoto  the unknown person or persons who designed the  cryptocurrency  went on to say “digital signatures provide part of the  solution  but the main benefits are lost if a trusted third party is still  required to prevent doublespending” in the original whitepaper.    In the proposed solution  the “network timestamps transactions by hashing  them into an ongoing chain of hashbased proofofwork  forming a record  that cannot be changed.” He further described the concept of miners where “a majority of CPU  power” would generate the longest chain and outpace attackers or malicious intent.    Today  blockchain is no longer just about bitcoin or the broader category of cryptocurrency; it’s an  exploded view of the underlying technology. It’s unique and differentiated in that it’s an immutable  ledger with a single version of the truth of the transaction.    And unlike other immutable datastores  it is also a shared or distributed ledger across a peerto  peer private or public network. It leverages a consensus mechanism to create permanent records  of transactions through a distributed and decentralized network  removing the need for a central  authority.    Ultimately it intends to create a trustless exchange of goods  services and/or real assets in a  more trustworthy way. And with a potentially much lower cost of transaction.    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    Why should we all care? While financial services is the sector most likely to be disrupted   blockchain technology is poised to improve customer experience  streamline product features   and enable our global economic system to reshape market structures that will impact us from  Wall Street to Main Street.    Financial services marketers  retail bankers  product managers and customer service executives  will all be impacted by the progress of blockchain technology. One of the first overarching impacts  could be in the development of a system of universal identity verification  that will impact  everything from new account opening to cybersecurity.    Leaders must be prudent and act now in evaluating blockchain as the types of deployments  evolve  while regulators need to reevaluate policies and processes given the enhanced  transparency the technology promises.    Read More  What is Blockchain… And Why Should I Care?    “It has long been anticipated that blockchain will eventually transform the way we  transact – largely by automating processing and reducing costs.  2018 will be the  year banks get real traction with their blockchain initiatives and when we see banks  implement solutions that address areas like KYC  loan fulfillment and crossborder  payments.”    – Nick Bilodeau  Head of Insurance in Canada for American Express    “2018 is when banks start to realize the value of crypto currencies and start offering mainstream  wallet services for normal people to store their crypto currencies. The current offerings (like  coinbase) have so much friction  that this market is ripe for taking for banks.”  – Deva Annamalai  Director  Innovation and Client Engagement for Fiserv    “Blockchain will definitely see the light in banking in the field of Supply Chain Finance  saving  tedious paper work  reducing settlement times  risks  fraud and costs and increasing  transparency.”  – Maria Jose Jorda Garcia  Chief Innovation Officer at BBVA Microfinance Foundation    “The hype around block chain  and specifically bitcoin  has risen to fever pitch. The trend next  year will be to consolidate interest in blockchain  as a technology having the capacity to  disintermediate many financial services companies altogether.”  – Don Peppers  Futurist and Founder of CXSpeakers    “Blockchain technology will start to be used more extensively in the financial  services industry in 2018. Permissioned distributed ledgers will be used for the  sharing of contracts  documents  data and the processing of certain payments. Then  the technology will fade into the background  just another piece of the IT machinery  for many companies.”    – Penny Crosman  Editor at Large for American Banker    “2018 will be the advent of the Hashgraph (blockchain competitor) opening disconcerting cases of  decentralized use of applications such as micropayments  distributed capital markets  live  collaboration applications  distributed MMOs  auctions and more.”  – Jean Baptiste LeFevre  Intrapreneur for BNP Paribas    Some Closing Thoughts from Our Panel    “The monetization of underused resources that started with Uber and Airbnb will become    mainstream in financial services. Thanks to secure decentralized systems  untapped sources of  individual capital can be invested and lent in new ways. The larger trend behind that is the  emerging tokenization of the economy.”  – Sebastien Meunier  Senior manager at Chappus Holder & Co.    “The great advancements we saw in finance digitalization and fintech creation will strongly impact  financial inclusion in 2018  helping democratizing finance for the 2 billion adults missing in the  game. It is time for a new digitized banking ecosystem to reach more people  allowing for more  business creation and economy improvement.”  – Maria Jose Jorda Garcia  Chief Innovation Officer at BBVA Microfinance Foundation    “Diversity and inclusion will become a primary topic in board room discussions and strategic  plans. Seats at the boardroom table will be a new metric that matters.  And yes  the 2017 climate  impacted this dynamic.”  – Lisa Kuhn Phillips  VP at Allied Payments Network    “2018 should be a year of very visible divergence  where the most techsavvy companies will  accelerate their investments in innovation and new strategies  while those slower to adapt will just  try to automate their processes.”  – Huy Nguyen Trieu  CEO of The Disruptive Group    “2018 will be known as the year of action. There’s been a lot of conversations  meetings  demos   plans  etc  but there is an urgency now to get projects planned and funded to create new  customized engagement models and variety of products/services from which to choose for  more personalized client experience.”  – April Rudin  Founder and CEO at The Rudin Group    “There is an ever growing talent gap that is keeping banks and credit unions from  maximizing their digital growth potential. In 2018 the leading banks and credit  unions will bridge this digital talent gap through shortterm outsourcing or  partnering  while they plan for ongoing training .”    – James Robert Lay CEO at  Digital Growth    Get the 2018 Retail Banking Trends Report    Thanks    I would like to thank the more than 100 members of this year’s crowdsourced panel who  accepted our invitation to be interviewed for this expansive annual report. The insight shared was  extraordinary  and the continued support of this effort is greatly appreciated.    I would also like to thank the more than 300 banks  credit unions  suppliers and vendors who    took the time to help us prioritize the trends from both 2017 and 2018. We know you’re busy  so  some special thanks.    I would also like to thank Carol Ryan  Jim Booth  Jeffry Pilcher  Geoffrey Rucinski  Ron Shevlin   Brett King and the rest of the Fintech Mafia for the daily support  inspiration  insights and laughs.  My wife  Linda and son  Cameron also get a huge thanks for putting with me daily (it’s not easy).    Finally  and most importantly  I would like to thank the sponsor of this year’s research  Kony  Inc.  Without their support  this research would not be possible.    I don’t think there is any annual research available that provides as indepth a review of annual  trends from such a diverse audience. But I’m always open to suggestions.    This article was originally published on December 22  2017. All content © 2018 by The Financial Brand and may not be  reproduced by any means without permission.    