here  in file  Special Theme  Technologies for Inclusiveness and Equality    Use  of Blockchain  and aritificial intelligence   to  promote  financial  inclUsion  in india    Saon Raya  Sandeep Paulb and Smita Miglanic  aSenior Fellow  Email  sray@icrier.res.in   bResearch Associate  Email  spaul@icrier.res.in   cResearch Associate  Email  smiglani@icrier.res.in   Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations  Core 6A  4th Floor    India Habitat Center  Lodhi Road  New Delhi 110003  India    Abstract  The financial sector covers five broad functions. These are to (i) make and receive   payments  including across borders; (ii) save to be able to consume or invest later;   (iii) borrow to be able to consume or invest now; (iv) manage risks to income  sav  ings  and transactions; and (v) receive advice on all above. Fintech may spur efficiency   gains in the financial sector  offer better and more targeted products and services  and   deepen financial inclusion in the developing world. However  it may also pose risks if its   application undermines competition  trust  monetary policy transmission  and finan  cial stability.  This article examines the potential of Distributed Ledger Technologies   (DLTs) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) in financial inclusion. DLT coupled with AI can be   beneficial in the domains of control  security and privacy in financial transactions and   financial inclusion.     Fintech     The term financial technologies or ‘Fin    tech’ is used to describe a variety of   innovative business models and emerg  ing technologies that have the potential   to transform the financial services indus  try (OICOIOSCO  2017). Innovative Fin  tech business models offer one or more   specific financial products or services in   an automated fashion through the use   of the internet. Emerging technologies   such as cognitive computing  machine   learning  artificial intelligence  and dis  tributed  ledger  technologies  can  be   used to supplement both Fintech new   entrants and traditional incumbents.    Alternative finance grew rapidly in the   Asia Pacific region in 201617 with China   an undisputed leader  followed by Aus  tralia  Japan  Republic of Korea  Singapore   and India in the region. The Asian region is     expected to fuel the growth in this sector   as financial inclusion and quality access   is an unfinished agenda  and mobile and   internet penetration is increasing rapidly.   In 201617  of the USD4.3 billion invest  ment  in  the  region   45  percent  of  that   amount is attributed to developments in   China and 38 percent to India  with the rest   for other countries.1 Globally  two sectors   that received most cumulative funding are   payments (US$24.3 billion) and lending   (US$ 13 billion). The Chinese fintech sec  tor has shown phenomenal growth with   relatively short maturity curve. A ranking   of  the  world’s  most  innovative  fintech   firms  gave  Chinese  companies  four  of   the top five slots in 2017. The most not  able growth in mobile payments  online   lending  and  investment.  Extraordinary   growth in Chinese fintech sector was due   to a techsavvy population  and an under  developed banking industry.    Singapore is fast turning into a major   destination  for  investors  and  foreign   industry  players  owing  to  extensive    government  support  and  expertise  of   corporate mentors. Indonesia is another   country with fast growing fintech industry.   It is the fourth largest mobile market in the   world with 339.9 million connections and   about 43% owns a smart phone and mo  bile is the preferred medium for internet   access but very low levels of financial in  clusion so far. The Republic of Korea boasts   of a very vibrant fintech business and most   notable growth is happening in payment   related  services  and  new  banking  plat  forms. In July 2017  the Republic of Korea   created a separate ministry  Ministry of   startup  to  strengthen  competitiveness   and support innovation within the SMEs   and  startup  space  in  the  Republic  of   Korea. Digital financial services is yet to   make inroads in Thailand. Digital banking   penetration in Thailand is close to 19 per   cent — far from Taiwan’s province of China   92 per cent and Singapore’s 94 per cent.   Credit card usage in Thailand stands at 3.7   per cent  compared with 51 per cent for   Taiwan province of China and 31 per cent   for Singapore.    The Indian Fintech industry  and espe  cially payments vertical greatly benefited   from  digitization  policy  of  government.   AADHAR  envisaged to provide residents   of India with a unique identity and a digital   platform to authenticate anytime  anywhere   has been the biggest enabler. It was widely   adopted by all the players for customer on   boarding and digital Know Your Customer   (KYC) verification.2 Unified Payments Inter  face (UPI)  promoted by the National Pay  ments Corporation of India (NPCI)  is fully   interoperable across all payments system    players. It powers multiple bank accounts     1   2      2nd Asia Pacific Region Alternative Finance Industry Report (2017)    Due to the Supreme Court ruling  Aadhar can be used for EKYC verification only by banks. See also  https //economictimes.  indiatimes.com/wealth/p2p/howwillthescverdictonaadhaarimpactonlinelendingcompanies/articleshow/66144423.cms    TECH MONITOR • JanMar 2019    11    into a single mobile application (of any par  ticipating bank)  merging several banking   features  seamless fund routing and mer  chant payments into one hood. The Digital   India campaign and demonetization also   substantially  contributed  to  the  growth   of digital transactions. Sustained growth   in smartphone penetration and internet   connectivity also helped.     In recent times  payments  transfers and   lending are receiving maximum attention   in this space. Innovations in this category   are targeted at improving the speed and   efficiency of payments  clearing  and settle  ment  reducing cost and changing the ways   people access financial services and con  duct financial transactions. Technology can   (i) reduce the need for financial intermedi  aries (specialized financial firms  banks and   nonbanks alike  that facilitate transactions   between  two  or  more  parties);  (ii)  push   intermediaries  to  change  their  internal   structures (possibly leading to partnerships   and acquisitions); (iii) induce the entry of   new intermediaries while displacing older   one. Technology can alter the market imper  fections across the financial system  which   underpin the need for trusted intermediar  ies. It can reduce asymmetric information   (limited knowledge of one’s counterparties   to a transaction)  facilitate the matching of   parties to a transaction  and reduce trans  action costs. Technology can also affect the   incentives for intermediaries to be horizon  tally or vertically integrated (offer multiple   services to endusers  as does a universal   bank  or acquire upstream suppliers). Fi  nally  technology can alter barriers to entry   for new intermediaries to compete against   incumbents.     In this context we look at two technolo  gies  artificial intelligence and blockchain   or distributed ledger technology and their   impact on financial inclusion in India.   Artificial Intelligence  Artificial  intelligence  (AI)  has  been  de  fined as the theory and development of   computer systems able to perform tasks   requiring human intelligence. The origin     of AI goes back to the 1950s when Alan   Turing published a paper on possibility   of machines with true intelligence. AI has   been  defined  as  “the  scientific  under  standing of the mechanisms underlying   thought  and  intelligent  behaviour  and   their  embodiment  in  machines”  (Asso  ciation for the Advancement of Artificial   Intelligence  (AAAI).3     The array of technologies in AI includes   audio processing  knowledge represen  tation   speechtotext   deep  learning    expert  systems   natural  language  pro  cessing  machinelearning (ML)  robotics    and symbolic logic. It is a general purpose   technology. Many of these have the po  tential to be applied in the fintech sector   and promotion of financial inclusion. Their   popularity picked up after 2011 when IBM    Microsoft  Google and Facebook started   investing in AI and machine learning for   commercial applications. The commonest   use is via machine learning which is es  sentially understood as computers learn   from data and can predict patterns in the   data. It enables humanlike intelligence   and learning capacities to overcome the   current limitations of capital and labour   (Accenture  2017).     Use of artificial intelligence in finance   Fintech companies are using AI applica  tions  to  advance  consumer  protection   and user experience  manage risk  detect   fraud  etc. in the country. Other promin  ent areas of use include credit scoring  chat   bots  capital optimization  market impact   analysis  trade signaling  and ‘reg tech’ ap  plications.   Customer support and helpdesk  Chat   bots are increasingly being adopted by   Indian financial organizations to increase   efficiency  and  reduce  cost  of  customer   support – e.g. HDFC Bank’s EVA (Electronic   Virtual Assistant)  City Union Bank’s Lak  shmi chatbot etc.  Fraud detection  Anomaly detection to   prevent frauds and improve monitoring    e.g. National Stock Exchange intends to   use machine learning to identify market   patterns  to  improving  monitoring  and     prevent manipulation of its highfrequen  cy trading (HFT) markets.  Risk  Management   More  personalized   products  to  clients  based  on  historical   data  risk analysis  minimizing human er  rors.  Security  AIenabled cyber security sys  tems to guard against and prevent pos  sible security breaches.  Wealth management  Robo advisors that   provide automated financial planning ser  vices like  tax planning advice  insurance   advice  health  investment advice etc.     HDFC uses AI for its Mobile Banking   App   and  OnChat   which  uses  Natural   Language  Processing  where  users  can   interact   confirm  and  pay  for  services   within chat. It is also planning to develop   AI solutions for Customer Support  Pro  cess Automation  HR  Security and Fraud   Detection.    With respect to AI  the biggest hurdle   to innovation and largescale application   is financial investment. Access to fund  ing  is  a  concern  for  many  developers   and those seeking to use applications. As   pointed out by Accenture (2017)  combi  nations  of  technologies   multivariant   data and interdisciplinary skills are quite   often not in the possession of any single   player. This could limit the market to few   large players who could successfully navi  gate the landscape and could cause an   oligopolistic  market  (Accenture   2017).   Hence there is a need to strengthen re  search and development in AI to ensure   ease of entry and sharing of technological   breakthroughs.     The Financial Stability Board (FSB  2017)   points out that the black box aspect of AI   might also be problematic. There is lack   of clarity with respect to ethical consid  erations  responsibility  governance and   regulation in such applications. The rapid   pace of adoption of AI in the industry calls   for regulatory oversight and policy inter  vention. The possibility of an open source   platform that shares AI frameworks and   tools  needs  to  be  explored  (Accenture    2017). Integration of AI may also render     3     https //aitopics.org/tag/artificial%20intelligence    12       TECH MONITOR • JanMar 2019    Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in Indiamany jobs obsolete but open up new ones.   This warrants skilling of a future workforce   and retraining of existing workforce. Most   importantly  regulatory practices have to   be  stepped  up  to  ensure  that  develop  ments and innovations follow fair market   practices. A range of legal issues related   to privacy and data protection  consumer   protection  antidiscrimination and liability   issues  and crossborder issues may arise   with further development in the industry.   Fintech companies are increasingly rely  ing on Artificial Intelligencebased tech  nologies  to  expand  the  unsecured  loan   business and tap clients who were previ  ously unserviceable; however  it is too early   in the day to assess how this is working.   Blockchain  Blockchain  “is a particular type of data   structure used in some distributed ledgers   which stores and transmits data in pack  ages called ‘blocks’ that are connected to   each other in a digital ‘chain’. Blockchains   employ  cryptographic  and  algorithmic   methods to record and synchronize data   across a network in an immutable manner”   (World  Bank   2017).  Distributed  Ledger   Technology (DLT) also known as block  chain technology refers to a protocol that   allows peertopeer transfer of assets over   the internet. DLT is a novel way of shar  ing data across multiple data stores (or     ledgers) (World Bank  2017). The shared   database allows peertopeer transaction   without requiring a central authority.     This technology creates an immutable   ledger of all activity across peertopeer   transactions.4  Transactions  through  the   DLT are cryptographically logged in ‘blocks’   of data  which when verified by members   of the distributed network  creates a per  manent  record  of  the  transactions.  The   network is both a medium of transactions   and a means of recording it  since the block  chain file belongs to all members of it (Bot  ton  2018). The peertopeer system means   that information can only be modified by a   majority of members  thus making it secure.  The  technology  is  characterized  by   decentralized  networks   absolute  digi  tization  and realtime transfer.  There are   no intermediaries  and trustless exchange    maintenance of high quality data with reli  ability  longevity and immutability; process   integrity and transparency; fast transac  tions enabling reduced costs required for   settlement. The promise of tamperproof   recordkeeping and data security makes   it possible for banks to transition from an   independent  ledger  to  a  universal  and   encrypted distributed ledger system and   also  improve  upon  their  product  offer  ings. Distributed ledger technology can be   used to execute  transactions in real time   by making  irreversible/undeletable trans    action entries into DLT copy which would   be available to all participating entities.     There  are  five  key  components  of  a   Blockchain   Cryptography 5 Peertopeer   network6  Consensus Mechanism 7 Distrib  uted Ledger8 and Validity rules.9 Network   participants can independently verify the   state and integrity of a blockchain.     There  are  permissioned  blockchain   and  permissionless  blockchain   in  the   former   only  authorized  members  are   part of the network; here  it is possible to   customize access control structures and   consensus  algorithms   that  is   who  can   view what and who verifies what can be   controlled. Permissioned blockchain has   greater potential for adoption in the near   future than permissionless chains.    Specific  areas  with  the  potential  for   application include  maintenance of KYC   records  application of the DLT  Blockchain   Cryptography and Smart Contracts.10 The   technology can successfully be applied in   payment processes.11   Smart contracts  Smart contracts (com  puter  programs)  would  be  one  of  the   most  immediate  applications  in  finan  cial services. They would emulate regu  lar contractual constructs and could be   made partially or fully selfexecuting  self   enforcing  or both. Such smart contracts   could replace standing instructions  elec  tronic clearing service (ECS)  etc.    4     5     6   7     8   9     10   11       https //digitalchamber.org/assets/blockchainandfinancialinclusion.pdfhttps //digitalchamber.org/assets/blockchainandfi  nancialinclusion.pdf    A variety of cryptographic techniques including oneway hash functions ensures near full proof security. This is achieved by   using publicprivate key combinations to generate the hash value so that information is visible to and can be processed only   by the person for whom it is intended.   Equally privileged and capable participants in the blockchain.    An algorithm that determines the ordering of transactions in an environment that ensures the parties follow the protocol and   prevent unethical practices. This helps maintain the single state of the transactions.   A list of transactions of assets grouped together in cryptographically linked “blocks”    A smart contract can be conceptualized as  “a computerized transaction protocol that executes the terms of a contract. The   general objectives are to satisfy common contractual conditions (such as payment terms  liens  confidentiality  and even enforce  ment)  minimize exceptions both malicious and accidental  and minimize the need for trusted intermediaries” (Cong and He    2018). Smart contracts are one of the most anticipated applications of blockchain technology. Smart contracts often emulate   the logic of regular contractual constructs  and therefore  many kinds of contractual clauses can be made partially or fully   selfexecuting  selfenforcing  or both. Payments Smart contracts can replace standing instructions  electronic clearing services   and bill payments.   A common set of rules of the network (for example  what transactions are considered valid  how the ledger gets updated).    Ripple and Tangle are two other important DLTs. Ripple uses a consensus ledger to confirm transactions and is being used   among banks as a worldwide payment system. Tangle was created for B2B models while Ripple simplifies settlement. Tangle’s   verification method removes transacting costs. Both are nonmineable. See https //stockhax.com/blog/distributedledger/    TECH MONITOR • JanMar 2019    13    Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in IndiaAuthentication   Blockchain  could  also   be  used  to  authenticate  identities  and   documents through a digital blockchain   recorded version. This would have applica  tions in KYC authentication  due diligence    etc. A central KYC is a related use case in   which Blockchain can have a potential use.  Blockchain cannot be implemented in   all use cases for digitization or to all trans  action related problems. It is most useful   when multiple parties share data and need   a view of common information. Blockchain   can be employed as an effective solution   if at least three out of following prerequi  sites are met (PwC  2018)    Multiple parties share data – Multiple   parties need a common view of the infor  mation at hand.   Multiple parties update data  When ac  tions undertaken by multiple parties need   to be recorded and the data coming from   multiple parties needs to be updated.   Requirement for verification  When it   is necessary to build trust amongst par  ties and make them understand that their   actions that are being recorded are valid.  Intermediaries add complexity  When   a transaction is dependent on multiple in  termediaries and their presence increases   the cost and complexity of the transaction.  Interactions are time sensitive  When   it is beneficial for the business to reduce   delay and expedite a transaction.   Transactions  interact   When  transac  tions  created  by  multiple  participants   interact and depend on each other.     The most important features of Block  chain with respect to payment processes   would be reduced turnaround time (no   more intermediary/ faster authentication)    increased  transparency   reduced  costs   and faster reconciliation. It also leads to   reduced risks  data auditability and resili  ence. Transfer of value via blockchain takes   approximately 10 minutes which might   not work for retail payment in developed   economies  but in developing countries      might increase the speed of transactions   significantly. Reduction or elimination of   operational  and  financial  inefficiencies   and  other  frictions  including  improved   endtoend settlement speed.   Use of blockchain/ DLT in   finance   DLT and blockchain technologies are of   immense  importance  to  the  financial   services industry  because of which there   is much interest in its use among stake  holders in the Indian Banking  Financial   Service and Insurance (BFSI) industry. Cur  rently  it is tested largely in applications to   do with information sharing. Popular use   cases  which  have  gained  traction  with   the Indian industry are intrabank appli  cations   authentication  and  document   management  trade finance and invoice   discounting  applications without a na  tive currency.12 Some of the use cases of   blockchain in India include (Iyer and Ku  mar  2018)      	MonetaGo (in trade)   	ICICI  Yes and Axis Bank (in Proofs of     Concept)    	NSE collaboration with banks such as     ICICI  IDFC  on KYC POC     	Unocoin  and  Coinsecure  (Bitcoin     exchanges and wallet)     	EzyRemit (remittance solutions)   	SignZy  (document  storage   signing      and validation)     The IndiaChain initiative of the NITI   Aayog  is  a  much  anticipated  develop  ment. The NITI (2017) has reported that    “NITI is parallely working on a platform   called ‘IndiaChain which will be a shared    Indiaspecific  blockchain  infrastructure    utilising  the  power  of  the  JanDhan   Yojana  Aadhaar  and Mobile trinity and   enable  blockchain  developers  to  build   social applications.” This platform  which   is expected to be linked with India Stack    could  provide  the  muchneeded  boost     to adoption of blockchain technology in   India.     Having realized the potential of these   innovative technologies  banks  finance   companies and microfinance institutions   are scaling up their expertise and integrat  ing them into operational models. The sec  tor’s evolution and growth is very rapid   and is expected to bring in new business   models   products  and  services   change   consumer preferences and market struc  ture. The regulators’ attention has been   drawn towards reviewing and reorienting   the relevant regulatory framework. Estab  lishment of the interregulatory Working   Group on Fin Tech and Digital Banking and   publishing of white papers and initiatives   by the Institute for Development and Re  search in Banking Technology (IDRBT) are   steps in this direction.     Many companies already use many of   these technologies to better access and   serve previously excluded or underserved   customers in the financial sector. It is also   argued that an optimal mix of the human   touch element along with the adoption   of  digital  solutions  promotes  access  to   and  usage  of  financial  services.  For  in  stance  banking agents and employees   can facilitate in bridging the gap between   awareness and usage of digital financial   services. Agents can help their customers   understand different financial processes   and  products   and  ensure  that  no  one   is  left  out  in  the  digital  financial  revo  lution.13  It can be used to provide spe  cific solutions to problems faced by the   unbanked to help them through tailored   solutions.14 These products are useful to   current consumers and can also bring in   the unbanked and underbanked to finan  cial area.   Financial inclusion  Financial inclusion refers to the number   of adults having access to banking or fi  nancial services. The Global Findex Survey     12     13     14       Digital currencies  and crypto assets such as Bitcoin  Etherium  central bankissued digital currencies  etc.  are applications with   native currency.    For details  see Accenture (2015)  ‘Branching out  The case for the human touch in banking’  by Frederic Brunier and Stefano   Trombetta’  https //www.accenture.com/t00010101T000000__w__/gben/_acnmedia/Accenture/ConversionAssets/DotCom/  Documents/Global/PDF/Dualpub_12/AccentureHumanTouchBanking.pdf   ibid    14       TECH MONITOR • JanMar 2019    Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in India(DemirgüçKunt  et al.  2018) reported that   in the 15+ age group  79.9% of the popu  lation had accounts with financial institu  tions in year 2017. This meant a strong   growth  compared  to  53.1%  reported   in the previous edition of the survey in   2014  and 35.2% in 2011. Nearly half of   the world’s adult population (or 3.5 billion   people) are unbanked and under banked   (with limited or nontransactional access   to finance). Of these 1.7 billion adults in   the  world  without  an  account   China    India  Pakistan and Indonesia account for   the largest unbanked persons.     The first step towards financial inclusion   is having an account. Increasingly  digital   payments are being used for financial trans  actions. Ethiopia and India stand out for low   use of digital payments  only about a third   of account owners in these two countries   reported making or receiving at least one   digital payment in the past 12 months. In   other developing economies  19 percent   of adults (30 percent of account owners)   reported  making  at  least  one  financial   transaction in the past year using a mobile   money account  a mobile phone  or the   internet. However  this figure masks large   differences between countries. In econo  mies where a large share of adults have   a mobile money account  such as Kenya   and Tanzania  the use of a mobile phone   to make transactions through an account is   close to universal among account owners    in Kenya 88 percent of account owners (72   percent of adults) reported using a mobile   phone or the internet to make a transac  tion through their account in the past year.   By contrast  in India less than 10 percent   of account owners reported doing so. In   China  49 percent of account owners (40   percent of adults) reported using a mobile   phone to make a financial transaction.     Debit  card  ownership  and  use  vary   considerably  across  developing  econo  mies. 100 million adults with an inactive   account have a debit card  while nearly   2.5 times as many  while 240 million have   an inactive account plus a mobile phone.   Brazil  China  Malaysia  Russia  and Turkey   follow the general pattern among devel  oping economies of relatively high debit     card ownership and use  with about half   of those with a debit card using it to make   a direct purchase in the past year. In India   and Kenya  by contrast  less than half of   account owners have a debit card  and   among those who do  only about a third   used it to make a direct purchase.    Making or receiving digital payments is   one important use of an account. Saving   is another. Few people  however  reported   using their account for saving but not also   for making or receiving digital payments in   the past year. In India the share was 7 per  cent. Most relied on money from working   or family and friends as the main source   of emergency funds in many developing   economies.  Money  from  working  was   most commonly cited as the main source   of funds in China  Indonesia  and Tanzania   while family or friends were given as the   main  source  in  Brazil   Egypt   and  India   (DemirgüçKunt  et al.  2018).     About 56% of all unbanked persons in   the world were women in 2017. In India   three years ago  men were 20 percentage   points more likely than women to have   an account. Today  India’s gender gap has   shrunk to 6 percentage points. This has   been due to a strong government push to   increase account ownership through bio  metric identification cards (DemirgüçKunt   et al.  2018). Technology has been helpful in   achieving gender parity and reduced the   gap between richer and poorer adults. The   Jan Dhan Yojana (JDY) scheme  developed   by the government to increase account   ownership. Launched in August 2014  the   program had brought an additional 310   million  Indians  into  the  formal  banking   system  by  March  2018   many  of  whom   might not yet have had an opportunity   to use their new account.  The financial   inclusion  programmes  in  India  include   policies undertaken by the government   (like PMJDY  launch of Bharat Interface for   Money (BHIM) and UPI)  measures taken by   the Reserve Bank of India (like the banking   correspondent model and launch of finan  cial literacy programme).     How can AI help in financial inclusion?15  AI  to  build  credit  history     Artificial     15      https //www.edgeverve.com/blog/artificialintelligencefinancialinclusion/     intelligence can be used to collect informa  tion on various indicators which can then   be used to create credit history of custom  ers. The information collected could be on   crop turnover  Aadhar linked data  GPS data    handset details  insurance etc. to build credit   scores for customers. The system can rec  ommend a smaller value loan and then to   top up further based on the renewed credit   worthiness reestimated by the AI machine.  AI as a relationship manager   Artificial in  telligence can be used as a relationship man  ager. HDFC has already introduced a chatbot   for this purpose. Most of the bank staff have   urban orientation and do not have inclin  ation and patience to talk to the rural cus  tomer. Natural Regional Language process  ing based AI trained robot to train and talk   to the rural customers in regional language    explain them about banking products  can   also discuss about the amount of the debt   that they have and suggest how much do   they need to save. AI trained Robots can be  come their financial advisors.  AI  assisted  lifestyle  based  banking      Another way in which AI can be used is   to assist in the financial literacy endeav  ours. There are a number of government   schemes like Gram Sadak Yojna  Swachh   Bharat  Abhiyan   Mahatma  Gandhi  Na  tional Rural Employment Guarantee Act   (MNREGA) etc. where the incentives go   through  the  Pradhan  Mantri  Jan  Dhan   accounts. Banks can use feeds of all such   incentive payments data from the Unique   Identification Authority of India (UIDAI)   database into the AI engine and come up   with the best possible products the cus  tomer can be offered.     How can blockchain help in financial   inclusion?   Opening an account  –  Individuals  can   open an account or deposit cash through   their phones.   Usability  of  an  account  –  Transfer  of   funds using blockchain takes 10 minutes   which is faster compared to such transfers   through conventional means in develop  ing countries   Costs  to  the  financial  institutions  –    Payments via blockchain do not need to     TECH MONITOR • JanMar 2019    15    Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in Indiago through the national payments system   and hence there is no need of physical   branches. The cost of transfer of funds is a   percentage of the value of the transferred   and makes payments more feasible.   Currency risk  Individuals and SMEs have   the option of adding funds in the fiat cur  rency. This shift the volatility risk to the   financial intermediary (FI). FIs are using   bitcoin as vehicle currency – the dollar is   the dominant vehicle currency and used   in  88%  of  trades.  Using  boitcoin  as  ve  hicle currency and blockchain’s platforms   means that the recipient and the sender   are not exposed to the volatility of the vir  tual currency.   Conclusion   In  this  article   we  examine  how  AI  and   blockchain technologies can contribute   to financial inclusion. While the potential   of blockchain technology  in general and   smart contracts  in particular  to make fi  nancial services more efficient  cost effect  ive and inclusive is not disputed  there is   concern with respect to scalability  inter  operability  cost impact and regulation.   Lack of understanding and expertise also   create cultural barriers making movement   away from legacy system more difficult.   Blockchain  technology  can  be  a  game   changer if it is widely adopted and there is   agreement on the technology architecture   that needs to be put in place for its adop  tion. As far as AI is concerned  it is a nascent   technology and there are challenges such   as transaction speed  verification process    and data limits. Its regulatory status is un  certain and there are integration concerns   (within an organization  on account of the   existing ecosystem)  scarcity of talent  and   costs involved. The potential of both these   technologies in achieving greater financial   inclusion is undoubtedly clear. Whether   that will happen will depend on many fac  tors including those highlighted above as   well as how quickly these technologies are   adopted by most fintech players.     References    9   Accenture (2015). Branching out  The   case  for  the  human  touch  in  bank  ing  by Frederic Brunier and Stefano   Trombetta  https //www.accenture.  com/t00010101T000000__w__/gb  en/_acnmedia/Accenture/Conver  sionAssets/DotCom/Documents/  Global/PDF/Dualpub_12/Accenture  HumanTouchBanking.pdf      9   Accenture  (2017).  Embracing  artifi  cial intelligence enabling strong and   inclusive AI driven economic growth.   Available at https //www.accenture.  com  /t20170614T130615Z__w__/  usen/_acnmedia/Accenture/next  gen5/eventg20yeasummit/pdfs/  AccentureIntelligentEconomy.pdf     9   Botton   N.  (2018)  Blochchain  and   Trade  Not a Fix for Brexit  but Could   Revolutionise  Global  Value  Chains   (If Governments Let it)  ECIPE News  letter.  http //ecipe.org/publica  tions/blockchainandtrade/?mc_  cid=4cd309bff6&mc_eid=f7c9b1f07b   9   Cong   L W  and  Z.  He  (2018).  Block  chain disruption and smart contracts.   Working Paper 24399  NBER Working   Paper Series. National Bureau of Eco  nomic Research  Cambridge.      9   DemirgüçKunt  A.  Klapper  L.; Singer    D.; Ansar  S.; and Hess  J. (2018). The   Global Findex Database 2017  Measur  ing Financial Inclusion and the Fintech   Revolution.  Washington   DC   World   Bank. doi 10.1596/978146481259  0. License  Creative Commons Attri  bution CC BY 3.0 IGO.     9   2nd Asia Pacific Region Alternative Fi  nance  Industry  Report  (2017)  Cam  bridge Centre for Alternative Finance   at the University of Cambridge  and   the  Australian  Centre   for  Financial   Studies at the University of Monash   Business School in Australia   Tsinghua      University  in  China  and  Zhejiang    University  in  China.  https //home.  kpmg/au/en/home/insights/2017/09/  cultivatinggrowthasiapacificalter  nativefinancereport.html     9   FSB  Financial Stability Board (2017).   Artificial  intelligence  and  machine   learning in financial services  Market   developments  and  financial  stabil  ity  implications.  Available  at  http //  www.fsb.org/wpcontent/uploads/  P011117.pdf     9   IDRBT.  Institute  for  Development   and Research in Banking Technology   (2017).  Applications  of  Blockchain   technology to banking and financial   sector  in  India.    IDRBT   Hyderabad    India.     9   Iyer   K. V. and VV Ravi Kumar (2018)   Blockchain  Bitcoin and Crytpocurren  cy Explained  Economic and Political   Weekly  http //www.epw.in/engage/  article/blockchainevolutionmoney  throughcryptocurrency     9   Mohammad  G.  and Owens  J. (2016).   Leveraging Fintech to Achieve Finan  cial Inclusion in Indonesia. Available   at  http //blog.microsave.net/lever  agingfintechtoachievefinancial  inclusioninindonesia/     9   OICOIOSCO (2017). IOSCO Research   Report  on  Financial  Technologies   (Fintech).    Accessed  from  https //  www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/  IOSCOPD554.pdf      9   PwC (2018). Blockchain  The next in  novation to make our cities smarter.    9   World Bank (2017). Distributed Ledger   Technology (DLT) and Blockchain. The   World Bank  Washington. Available at   http //documents.worldbank.org/  curated/en  /177911513714062215/  pdf/122140WPPUBLICDistributed  LedgerTechnologyandBlockchain  FintechNotes.pdf     16       TECH MONITOR • JanMar 2019    Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in India