b'herein fileA Research of Financing Risk Management in   Small and MediumSized Enterprises     Yede Huang Lixia Jia   The School of Management Shandong University of Technology Zibo Shandong China   yede9505@163.com  jlxabcd@163.com   Abstract Financing for a business is crucial is the starting point for production and operation activities. Enterprises in the financing process are facing a variety of risks the major causes of which are the external environment  factors  and  internal  management  reasons.  The  paper  analyzes  the  causes  of  Small  and  Mediumsized Enterprise (SME) financing risks and puts forward some measures that should be adopted by the Small and Mediumsized Enterprises (SMEs) to deal with financing risks. Keywords SME; Fina ncing risk; Countermeasure  1. The introduction of SME financing risk management  SMEs  are  the  groundwork  to  promote  economic  development  to  construct  of  the  subject  of  market  economic  and  to  promote  the  social  stability  the  strategic position of which  can not  be  replaced with  large  enterprises  the  advantages  of  which  on  the  solution  of  employment  are also prepared concern with  the  increasing pressure on social employment especially. Therefore the development of SMEs in China is of special significance. At  present  it  has  reached  42  million  SMEs  (including individual  industrial  and  commercial  households)  in China  which  constitutes  more  than  99  percent  of  the total  businesses  and  become  an  important  force  in  Chinese  economic  and  social  development.  SMEs  in  Chinese  have  achieved  the  rapid  healthy  and  sustainable development  the  contribution  of  which  to  economic growth  is  increasing.  At  present  the  final  products  and services  worth  created  by  SMEs  is  equivalent  to  about 60%  of  GDP  (gross  domestic  product)  the  tax  revenue paid by SMEs is about 50% of the total National. However  suffered  by  the  international  financial  crisis  the capital  chain  of  many  domestic  companies  is  facing  a "rupture" dangerous. Especially almost all  of SMEs are in the shortage of funds to certain degree owing to the smaller scale poor risk tolerance asset quality and credit status difficult to achieve the bank loan terms. There are strict restrictions to get the access into the capital market for the reason of the immaturity and the limited capacity of  Chinese  capital  market.  So  a  large  number  of  SMEs will be rejected outside the securities market due to their sizes  difficult  to  meet  the  listing  requirements  for  the motherboard. Issuance of corporate bonds is also subject to strict restrictions requiring a higher credit rating the larger asset size and higher profits sometimes collateral or guarantee. Issuance of corporate bonds is also subject to strict restrictions requiring a higher credit rating the larger asset size and higher profits sometimes collateral or  guarantee.  Therefore  SME  direct  financing  is  more difficult  and  the  financing  focus  on  indirect  financing such as bank borrowings. This makes the less financing channels and more financing difficult for SMEs in China than the general business which led to the bland financing after for SMEs finding a way to finance they have completely ignored the financing risk let alone managed. SME  Financing  Risk  Management  is  a  management activity  that  taking  the  initiative  to  create  conditions  in order to do our utmost to avoid or reduce the deviation between  actual  benefits  and  anticipated  benefits  which caused by risk incidents and to realize smoothly the financing and benefits through risk identification and risk assessment  of  SME  financing  [1].  There  are  both  theoretical  value  and  practical  significance  to  explore  the financing problems of SMEs in China It is conducive to improving  the  SME  overall  quality  and  strength  expanding the scale of operation occupying a larger market share and enhancing the core competitiveness of enterprises  in  order  to  raise  the  funds  required  at  the  same time with a view to providing some help for SME entrepreneurs how to formulate financing strategy. 2. The analysis of SME financing risk and causes 2.1 The SME financing risk  SME  financing  risk  is  that  the  possibilities  of  being not  implemented  of  the  SME  raising  funds  excessive costs of financing and falling short of the expected return that is to say the loss or uncertainty to the business What  brought  about  by the  uncertainty  about fundraising benefits. Generally there are two kinds of SME financing risks. First the risk caused by unimplemented fundraising. Funds  are  an  indispensable  factor  of  production  in  the SME development so the stable financing channel is an important prerequisite for the development of SMEs in which the most prominent problem at present is the lack of funding and poor financing channels. SME financing       The Conference on Web Based Business Management9781935068181    2010 SciRes.500 difficulties have long plagued the development of SMEs. At present SMEs which can obtain bank credit supports are  accounted  for  only  about  10%  of  all  SMEs  in  our country.  Because  of  financing  difficulties  the  funding needs of SMEs can not be met which seriously restricted the  production  operation  and  development  of  enterprises. Second  the  risk  brought  by  impossibility  of  repays. The main purpose of enterprise collecting fund is generally to expand the production scale to improve economic efficiency  and  to  achieve  financial  management  objectives  finally.  Fundraising  in  order  to  obtain  more  economic benefits for businesses will definitely increase the burden of financing debt service schedule which would make  the  rate  of  enterprise  fundprofit  to  be  higher  or lower than the loan interest rate due to the uncertainty of the rate of enterprise fundprofit. If enterprises have the right  decisions  and  effective  management  they  can achieve their business objectives. However in the market economy  the  rapid  change  in  the  market  condition  and increasing furious competence among enterprises may all lead  to  failure  decisions  and  misconduct  management which  will  make  a  great  of  uncertainty  of  fundraising efficiency resulting in financing risks [2]. 2.2 The origin analysis of SME Financing Risk  We should analyze what factors SME financing risks resulting from and understand their occurrence regularity in order to adopt a scientific response measures to protect timely. Forming factors of enterprise finance risk are not only outside the enterprise but also internal influence.   2.2.1 External reasons  The first reason is the national macroeconomic policy. The  national  macroeconomic  condition  plays  a  very significant  impact  on  the  survival  and  development  of enterprises. First banks and other financial institutions as money  supply  side  is  responsible  for  the  provision  of finance  for  SMEs.  In  China  the  major  banks  are stateowned.  Therefore  the  national  policies  are  very important  for  SME  lending.  Secondly  national  policies and  measures  bring  direct  and  indirect  effects  to  enterprise operating. The most prominent ones are the income tax policy and credit policy of taxes which will encourage  companies  to  make  full  use  of  external  borrowing rather than their own funds because corporate debt will bring  enterprises  tax  benefit.  Finally  the  different  economic development cycle would have significant impact on  corporate  financing.  In  the  economic  takeoff  and boom period for all kinds of strong demand enterprise products can be sold and loans can be repaid on time. On the  contrary  during  the  economic  downturn  due  to  reduced  demand  enterprise  product  sales  are  sluggish resulting in decreased product yield increased unit cost and  amplified  enterprise  business  risk.  Coupled  with  a large number of uncollectible accounts receivable companies are faced with severe financial difficulties. In addition in order to avoid bad debts banks often develop more stringent lending standards making enterprise loan financing to be worse [3]. The second is industry characteristics. Enterprises as a business entity is in the market a big environment receiving  the  impact  of  various  factors  from  the  same  or different  industries  therefore  there  are  many  uncertain factors  in  the  production  and  management  activities such as sales price sales volume production and operation  cost  mass  consumption  level  etc.  The  inherent profitability  in  every  industry  the  industry  cycle  or  the industry characteristics is an essential factor to determine the profitability of an enterprise in the industry. In addition with  the development  of  market  economy  and  adjustment of industrial structure some of "sunset" industries  will  be  eliminated  gradually  enterprises  in  which must be eliminated if without corporation transformation in  time  such  as  environmental  pollution  enterprises. Nowadays  the  uncertainty  of  the  complicated  variable and  fiercely  competitive  market  leads  to  the  expected return uncertain resulting in financing risk. The  third  is  the  financial  markets  and  interest  rate level. SMEs are mainly financed through bank loans so the corporate financing is subject to the effect of financial  market  which  mainly  refers  to  the  money  supply and  interest  rates.  Moreover  the  interest  rate  level  determines the capital cost directly. When the state implements  the  "double  loose"  policy  that  is  expansionary fiscal policy and loose monetary policy the money supply  increases  and  the  interest  rate  of  loan  reduces.  If corporate  raise  the  fund  at  this  time  the  capital  cost  is lower  and  the  burden  of  operating  costs  on  enterprises will reduce thus the risk of enterprise financing will reduce.  On  the  contrary  when  the  country  implements  a "double  tight"  policy  that  is  tight  fiscal  policy  and monetary  policy  the  money  supply  shrinks  and  the  interest rate of loans rise. If enterprises finance at this time capital  costs  and  operating  costs  borne  by  enterprises will larger fundraising risk. thus  enterprises  will  bear  a increase The  forth  is  financing  risks  caused  by  the  irrational bank credit structure. This stage the security is regarded as the first operating  principle  for  financial  institutions  what  led  by stateowned  commercial  banks  which  favor  only  those large  enterprises  who  have  well  enterprise  credit  relatively while be cold and distant to SMEs who have the less  standardized  management  unstable  efficiency  and credit difficult to grasp. Therefore the number of actual borrowing is significantly less than their credit limits in large enterprises resulting to some bank resources idle but then it is very difficult to finance for SMEs [4].    The Conference on Web Based Business Management9781935068181    2010 SciRes.501 2.2.2 Internal reasons  First the fail financing decision leads to financing risk. Many  companies  with  financing  risks  do  not  carry  out scientifically  rigorous  feasibility  demonstration  before finance  but  have  great  blindness  which  brings  adverse effects to companies instead of value. Second  the  imperfect  management  causes  financial risk.  Because  of  lack  of  modern  theory  and  practice  in enterprise  management  the  management  concept  is backward  the  internal  management  basis  is  absent management  link  is  weak  the  financial  system  is  unsound and less transparent and financial statements provided for banks have low credibility because of containing false or even completely fictitious in SMEs. Because of  various  shortcomings  in  management  the  continued growth  of  SMEs  is  insufficient.  High  startup  rate  and high waste rate are main features of SMEs which makes commercial financial institutions very cautious. In China the  phaseout  rate  is  nearly  70%  for  5year  in  SMEs approximately  30%  of  small  businesses  are  in  the  red only  about  30%  of  which  have  potential  development capacity  about  70%  of  which  have  poor  development ability  and  only  1%  of  SMEs  can  survive  more  than  a decade. Therefore either the direct financing or indirect financing  will  be  faced  with  many  obstacles  and  the financing risk is often great for SMEs [5]. Third Asymmetric information leads to financing risk. The difficulty of SME financing is in the credit risk. On the one hand the SME credit risk is difficult to control. The other hand the information transparency of SMEs is relatively low and the information disclosure system remains  to  be  established.  Financial  institutions  are  difficult  to  make  accurate  evaluation for  SME credit  conditions so it is unable to make effective credit decisions. Borrowing  enterprises  with  information  superiority  are likely to take actions which are conducive to their own but harm to banks and to conceal the selfincriminating information. Thus banks will identify the type of enterprise risk before lending to enterprises. If the business is in  the  lowrisk  banks  will  extend  loans  otherwise  not. Only when the benefit is greater after identification than no  identification  banks  would  pay  some  transaction costs which are owing to asymmetric information for the identification  of  the  enterprise.  The  existence  of  asymmetric information increases the transaction costs of both financing parties  and  restricts  the  level of financing for enterprises.  Most  of  Chinese  SMEs  are  familyowned partnershipbased single property right small sized low technology  content low  antirisk  capability  and nonstandard  financial  and  operation  management.  The phenomenon  of  untrue  or  without  financial  statements exists in about 80% of SMEs. Moreover the outbreak of the  financial  crisis  falling  house  prices  and  increasing corporate  bankruptcies  make  banks  more  reluctant  to lend to private enterprises. Internal  and  external  factors  of  financing  risks  are interlinked  and  interact  together  to  induce  the  risk  of financing.  3. Countermeasures to improve management of financing risk in SMEs  3.1 SMEs should strengthen the training of financial risk awareness of their managers improve the level of financial budget management and enhance the scientific rationality of decisionmaking.  First  the  SME  managers  must  make  clear  that  risks are  inevitable  have  to  face  and  undertake  risks  and adopt effective measures to reduce and prevent risks in particular  the  leadership  should  have  a  more  clear  understanding and vigilance to the potential crisis and have some  risk  management  knowledge  and  the  capacity  of prevention  and  control.  Secondly  the  SME  managers should  do  all  financial  projections  and  plans  well  arrange  for  all  the  budget  work.  The  accurate  financial budget plays an important role in the prevention and circumvention of the SME financing risk. According to the shortterm  production  and  business  activities  and longterm  development  planning  SMEs  can  forecast their own  demand  for  capital do  financial budget well arrange  the  financing  plans  and  estimate  the  potential amount  of  money  raised.  At  the  same  time  SMEs  can determine whether funds can meet their needs based on the  predictable  funding  and  upon  which  they  arrange production and business activities. Thus it can link SME production  and  business  to  the  fundraising  organically avoiding cash flow problems caused by the two divorced from each other and guarding against the SME financing risk[6]. Finally after determining the total capital demand in accordance with the needs of production and operation SMEs  should  arrange time  and  number  of fundraising rationally so that the fundraising time links with the use of capital closely the amount of idle funds is  reduced  and  the  capital  profit  rate  increases.  Meanwhile in the process of financing decisionmaking based on the calculation of the cost of capital and the analysis of risks of various funding methods we should arrange the  capital  rationally  give  full  consideration  to  the  repaying  ability  and  formulate  the  plan  of  borrowing  repaying  and  financial  arrangements  of  construction  projects in order to avoid the financing risk caused by funds being not implemented or unable to meet maturing obligations  as  they  come  due.  In  short  the  SME  managers should be based on reality plan for the long term give consideration interests  and longterm development and pay attention to the scientific decisionmaking. immediate to  both the the     The Conference on Web Based Business Management9781935068181    2010 SciRes.502 3.2 SMEs require the strong rather than pursuing big in the development process.  Every  company  has  only  to  enhance  its  own  core competitiveness to be of indomitable vitality. The pursuit of size in excess would cause heightening the debt ratio and increasing the enterprise\'s financial risks and operational risks. Absence of the consciousness of sound and being  too  risky  are  the  primary  reasons  for  indebted business failure. Consequences of indebted management are not the business failure but also a serious affecting the  future  of  commercial  credit  and  thus  affecting  the refinancing capacity[7]. Therefore SMEs should expand the endogenous financing channels actively explore the potential of internal funds fully bring their enthusiasm of reproduction  on  extended  scale  into  full  play  speed  up the  flow  of  funds  and  improve  continuously  the  efficiency of funds allocation and use.  3.3 SMEs should establish the modern concept that cash is king and distinguish the importance between "cash flow" and "profit"  Cash  flow  is  the  momentum  for  enterprises  to  maintain  the  capital  liquidity  and  sustained  development  of which  the  amount  affects  their  financing  decisions  investment  risks  credit  standard  and  enterprise  value  directly.  Keeping  an  adequate  and  stable  cash  flow  particularly the net operating cash flow is able to show the ability to generate positive earnings and the potential of growth  and  be  beneficial  to  reduce  the  bankruptcy  risk and investment risk for SMEs. Therefore budget preparation  of  the  enterprise\'s  cash  flow  is  a  very  important part in the financial  management. As the object of corporate  finance  is  the  cash  and  flow  in  the  short  term businesses  can  be  maintained  is  not  entirely  dependent on profit but on whether there is enough cash for various expenses. Accurate cash flow budgets can provide early warning  signals  for  enterprises  to  enable  operators  to take early measures [8].  3.4 SMEs should enhance the risk management related information gathering  First of all in terms of financing risks SMEs should collect at least the following important information domestic  and  international  macroeconomic  policies  and economic performance industry conditions state industrial policies the new laws regulations and policies affecting  enterprises the  relevant  content  of  scientifictechnical  progress  and  technological  innovation credit conditions of major customers and major suppliers and etc.[9] They should enhance the sensitivity to interest rate changes in order to grasp the dynamics and lay the foundation  for  interest  rate  forecasts.  Secondly  they  must strengthen the basic study of financial theories and knowledge  analyze  and  research  the  law  of  financial situation policy changes and strengthen the forecast of interest rate changes. Finally they should increase introduction of risk managers and training make full use of external talent and improve forecast accuracy in order to provide  a  basis  for  investment  and  financing  decisionmaking. 3.5 SMEs should prevent financial risks caused by changes in interest rates  For the financing risk brought about by changes in interest rates SMEs should investigate carefully the capital market  supplyanddemand  situation  and  grasp  its  development trend according to interest rates accordingly make  the  appropriate  funding  arrangement.  Funding should  be  raised  as  little  as  possible  or  only  for shortterm muchneeded during the period of high interest rates. While the interest rate is in the transition from high  to  low  it  should  minimize  fundraising  also  and adopt the floatingrate interestbearing way for the must needed fundraising.  It  is  beneficial  to  finance  when  the interest rate is at a low level. During the period of interest rate being in the transitional from low to high enterprises  should  raise  longterm  funds  actively  and  adopt the fixedrate interestbearing manner as far as possible to reduce debt interest rates [10].  4. Conclusion  In  modern  society  SME  financing  channels  and methods have become more extensive but the risk is also growing.  So  SMEs  need  to  strengthen  their  internal management  to  improve  operational  strength  to  give full consideration to each risk to weigh up the pros and cons to enhance risk awareness to establish the mechanism of risk prevention to control risks throughout every aspect of business operations to build a risk prevention wall  so  that  they  can  find  their  selfdevelopment  and boom in the fierce competition. References [1]  Zhao Liyun Zheng Yawu    The Analysis of the SME Financing Risk  Management  in  China     Journal  of  Financial  Accounting 2008(9) 4550. [2]  LI Xiaohui    The Enterprise Financing Risk and Its Prevention    Journal of Business 2008 (3) 8586. [3]  Lin  Li     Studies  on  SME  Financing  Management     Wealth  of Networks 2008(7) 2729. [4]  Zhao  Cailiang     The  Present  Situation  and  Countermeasures  of SME  Financing  in  China     Coastal  Enterprises  and  Scitech 2006(12) 89. [5]  Xu Hengshan    An Analysis of Factors in SME Financing Decision    Friends of Accounting 2008 (1) 6263. [6]  Qin Ran    SME Financing Risk Assessment and Early Warning Studies  in  Henan  Province     Contemporary  Economy  2008(1) 8890.    The Conference on Web Based Business Management9781935068181    2010 SciRes.503 [7] Sun Lin    Talking about the Indebtedness Appropriate and Crisis Prevention in SMEs    Modern Business 2008(10) 124125. [8]  Zhang  Pei     Discussion  on  the  Enterprise  Financial  Risk  Management in China    Modern Agriculture 2008(6) 10811.  [9]  Wang Hui    The Comprehensive Risk Management in the Process of Enterprise Financing    Modern Business 2008(9) 7476. [10]  Cao  Xianghong     The  Analysis  and  Prevention  of  Enterprise Debt Financing Risk    Modern Business 2008(7) 150151.     The Conference on Web Based Business Management9781935068181    2010 SciRes.504 '