b'herein fileEmergence of Fintech Companies in Southeast Asia    Rising Hopes of a Solution to Financial Issues   By Kaori IwasakiSenior EconomistEconomics DepartmentJapan Research InstituteSummary1.  A growing number of fintechrelated businesses are emerging in Southeast Asia reflecting increased interest as part of the global fintech (financial technology) boom. The Internet and smartphones are spreading rapidly in Southeast Asia and many of these new businesses are utilizing these technologies to find solutions to the region   s financial problems. 2.  Many of the technologies and business models adopted by fintech businesses in Southeast Asia were not developed in the region but instead imported from developed countries and China. While using these technologies and business models Southeast Asian fintech companies are also retaining some traditional methods to create hybrid business models that combine both hightech and lowtech approaches which from the perspective of developed countries seem unsuited to the digital age. This situation reflects the fact that digital and nondigital fields have not developed side by side in Southeast Asia as they have in many developed countries.3.  These characteristics are seen in the following examples of typical fintech businesses in Southeast Asia.(1)  Mobile payment services These can be used even by people who have no bank accounts. Money can be loaded into accounts in mobile devices by paying cash to affiliated retailers and other outlets in the local community.(2)  Services that allow cash transfers using only mobile phone numbers Singapore and Thailand are both engaged in national initiatives in this area as part of their efforts to create domestic infrastructure for electronic payments. (3)  Mobile overseas money transfer services These services evolved to meet the needs of a region in which large numbers of people travel overseas to work. They are promoted as being easier cheaper and faster than conventional systems. (4)  Lending services based on the use of alternative data These businesses collect and analyze digital footprints and use this information to compensate for or provide an alternative to underdeveloped credit information systems.4.  One area which is leading the fintech boom in Southeast Asia is mobile payments. Competition has intensified in this area due to a large influx of companies into the market. The Chinese companies Alibaba and Tencent are expected to step up their presence in the market sooner or later. Local companies such as the powerful ridehailing startups GoJek and Grab are meanwhile positioning themselves strategically to take leading positions across the entire electronic payment service sector in Southeast Asia.  5.  Fintech businesses are also attracting attention from Southeast Asian governments which want to ensure the sound development of fintech as a way to develop and enhance the financial systems of their countries. There are especially high hopes toward the role of fintech in the achievement of financial inclusiveness and the creation of a cashless society.6.  Many hurdles will need to be overcome before fintech businesses can become firmly established in Southeast Asia and contribute to the solution of the region   s financial problems. What is most important is to ensure the reliability of fintech businesses. That will require both public and private initiatives including the creation of mechanisms and rules the establishment of security measures and awarenessraising activities for users.2RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 IntroductionIn recent years there has been a global trend toward the convergence of finance and IT in the form of fintech leading to the emergence of various financial services. In Southeast Asia this has led to the rise of various fintech businesses especially problemsolving businesses that approach financial  sector  problems  in  Southeast Asia  as business opportunities. These businesses are using technologies and business models that originated in  developed  countries  and  China  as  problemsolving tools. Another feature of these businesses is  their  ability  to  combine  hightech  and  lowtech approaches according to local conditions by introducing cuttingedge technology while also keeping traditional methods. In this article we will examine these characteristics of Southeast Asian fintech and the companies that use fintech. Part 1 will provide an outline of fintech businesses in Southeast Asia. Part 2 will examine the various financerelated problems in Southeast Asia that have led to the rise of fintech businesses in the region and show how fintech can be used to resolve these issues. Part 3 will look at some typical examples of fintech businesses in Southeast Asia and Part 4 will focus on mobile payments which is leading the fintech boom in Southeast Asia focusing in particular inroads by Chinese companies and trends in the ridehailing business. Part 5 will show how governments are looking at fintech businesses in terms of their potential to contribute to the solution of policy issues in each country.1.  Recent Developments of Fintech in Southeast Asia(1)  Upsurge in Fintech BusinessesAn overview of fintech businesses in Southeast Asia can be obtained by looking at the list compiled by the Thai technology media firm Techsauce and market research and consultancy company RUAMKID in Southeast Asia   s Top 75 Fintech Companies Report 2017(1). First the top three countries  in  terms  of  head  office  locations  for these companies were Singapore (43%) Thailand (19%) and Indonesia (12%) (Fig. 1). These figures confirm that while many fintech companies are concentrated in Singapore which is the most Fig. 1   Attributes of the Main Types of Fintech Companies in Southeast Asia (Survey of 75 Companies)By Country(%)Myanmar4Malaysia5Philippines8Vietnam9Indonesia12Thailand19Singapore43Personal asset management4Financial business tools5Lending 8Bitcoin/Blockchain8For personalinvestors 11Accounting software4By SectorInsurance 1(%)Investmentresearch1Electronicsettlements43Comparison offinancial products15Notes  The 75 fintech companies were selected on the basis of funds raised crossborder business expansion and other factors (e.g. market leadership business model innovation links with large corporations). They include both existing and emerging companies. Source Techsauce RUAMKID Southeast Asia   s Top 75 Fintech Companies Report 2017 February 2017 3RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 financially advanced country in Southeast Asia they are also emerging in other countries in the region. Moreover a significant number of companies have located their headquarters in Singapore which although small offers an attractive business environment including its regulatory and tax systems while conducting their actual business activities in other countries.Second if we categorize these companies in terms of their field of business nearly half (43%) are involved in the electronic payment business including mobile payment services(2). This is far higher than the percentage engaged in the second most common field of activity financial product comparison (15%) and the thirdranked area support for individual investors (11%). When looking at the global trend less than 20% of companies in the Fintech 250 list(3) compiled by CB Insights (2017 edition) are engaged in the electronic payment business(4) reflecting the dispersal of companies across a broader spectrum of fields. This suggests that the electronic payment business is leading the growth of fintech in the Southeast Asian market which still lacks depth. Crossaggregation  by  country  and  business field confirms that while many electronic payment companies are based in Singapore such companies are also scattered across other countries in the region indicating that companies are emerging throughout Southeast Asia (Table 1). However five out of the six companies engaged in bitcoin or blockchainrelated activities are based in Singapore as are all four providers of financial and business tools which are primarily involved in supporting financial institutions and professional investors. This is because these companies must satisfy relatively sophisticated financial needs or require advanced financial technology. In contrast only three fintech companies have their headquarters in Myanmar and are involved in the electronic payments business. This appears to reflect the fact that diversified and sophisticated financial needs have only just started to evolve in Myanmar. Key players in the fintech business in Southeast Asia include existing financial institutions and telecommunications companies and also startups. Major financial institutions in each country already provide mobile banking services and telecommunications carriers as well as financial institutions offer mobile payment services. Fintech startups are becoming an increasingly important presence. Although the aforementioned list of Southeast Asia   s top 75 fintech companies Table 1   Major Fintech Companies in Southeast Asia by Country and Field Singapore  Thailand Indonesia  Vietnam  Philippines  Malaysia  Myanmar Total(Companies)Electronic settlements(e.g. mobile settlements)Comparison of financial productsFor personal investorsBitcoin/BlockchainLendingFinancial/business toolsAccounting software Personal asset managementInsuranceInvestment researchTotal1224534100152301011103214321020100094100000200732010000006220000000043000000000332118664331175Notes The 75 fintech companies were selected on the basis of funds raised crossborder business expansion and other factors (e.g. market leadership business model innovation links with large corporations). They include both existing and emerging companies. Source Techsauce RUAMKID Southeast Asia   s Top 75 Fintech Companies Report 2017 February 2017 4RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 is not limited to startups they make up the majority. Examples include the Vietnambased company M_Service which provides mobile payment services under the    MoMo    brand (examined later in this article) Coins.ph which has its headquarters in the Philippines and provides payment services using mobile devices and blockchain technology and Funding Societies a P2P lending company based in Singapore. Some of these startups have attracted  enough  interest  to  be  included  in  the global Fintech 250 list. According to statistics compiled by CB Insights (Fig. 2) Venture capital (VC) investment in fintech startups in Southeast Asia rose from $11 million in 2012 to $177 million in 2015 a 16fold increase. The total dropped slightly to $158 million in 2016 but the growth trend has continued in terms of the number of investments. The fact that fintech has become a significant focus for VC investment is confirmed by its share of total technologyrelated investment over the past three years (20142016) which reached 9.2% in value and 17.1% in volume. In 2016 VC investment in fintech in Japan was similar to the level in Southeast Asia at $154 million. In addition to specialized fintech startups a Fig. 2   Fintech Investment by Venture Capital in Southeast Asia(US$ million)(Volume)1801601401201008060402008070605040302010020121314Value (left axis)1615(Calendar years)Volume (right axis)Source CB Insights Southeast Asia Fintech Deals Hit a New Record March 17 2017growing number of startups from other sectors are also moving into the fintech business in Southeast Asia. In the area of electronic payments especially mobile payments startups from fields ranging from ecommerce to online gaming and ridehailing services have moved into the area. In many countries there is a now a proliferating array of schemes formed by startups in collaboration with existing financial institutions and telecommunications companies. Two companies that are attracting attention in the area of electronic payments are GoJek (head office Indonesia) and Grab (head office Singapore) both of which are involved in the ridehailing business. We look at their activities in greater detail later in this article. (2)  The Significance of Fintech for Southeast AsiaIn  the  emerging  markets  of  Southeast Asia there is ample scope for the development of fintech businesses. This is because of the big potential of fintech to solve the many issues affecting the financial environment in these countries. In developed countries the level of financial services available is already relatively high which means that the improvements provided by fintech solutions are generally only marginal(5). While fintech can enhance usability and yield cost savings for financial institutions so far it has not triggered any dramatic changes to the financial industry. Blockchain technology has that potential but fullscale practical implementation is still some distance in the future. This contrasts with the situation in Southeast Asia where fintech has the potential to have a major impact on the financial sector. The region   s financial systems are underdeveloped and in many countries there is considerable room for improvement through the use of fintech. Various things that were previously difficult can now be achieved with fintech and the benefits gained from these new possibilities are substantial. Similar factors explain the surge of fintech activity in China and India. 5RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Another  factor  that  affects  the  scope  for  the emergence of fintech businesses is differences in regulatory surroundings. In developed countries financial activity is already subject to stringent regulations which tend to create barriers when fintech startups try to introduce pioneering initiatives. In contrast many Southeast Asian countries offer an environment in which fintech startups can operate freely because their regulatory systems are either relatively relaxed or have not yet been established. 2.  The Role of Fintech in Finding Solutions to Issues in Southeast Asia (1) Key Financial IssuesIn this section we will analyze problems affecting the financial environment in Southeast Asia. Most of these issues are common to developing and emerging countries.First there is a significant population of people who have problems in terms of identify verification and credit checking especially among lowincome earners. From the perspective of banks providing services to these people is both difficult and expensive. A significant number of people have no documents that can be used to verify their identities  and  even  when  such  documents  are available their authenticity is questionable. For example in Indonesia all citizens over the age of 17 possess an ID card (Resident Identity Card) but because of inadequacies in managing the system fraud is not uncommon. For example some people possess multiple ID cards while there are occasional cases of forgeries(6). For this reason banks need to ask for multiple identifying documents and spend time verifying them. In addition to the difficulty of identity verification the challenge of assessing creditworthiness is significant due to the inadequacies of credit information systems in Southeast Asia. Credit bureau coverage (the larger of either public on private) is 650% in Thailand and Indonesia 40% in Vietnam and only 10% in the Philippines (2016 Fig. 3). Even in Singapore the coverage ratio is only 66% reflecting the fact that its credit information agency Credit Bureau Singapore was established relatively recently in 2002. In addition the financial needs of lowincome earners whether deposits or loans tend to involve small amounts leading to higher operating costs for the providers of these services. As a result banks have been reluctant to offer financial services to lowincome individuals and have concentrated their branch and ATM networks in urban areas. They have also been charging account maintenance fees and have applied strict terms and high interest rates to loans. Another factor is low financial literacy among lowincome people. For these reasons formal financial services have not been widely available to people in these countries. In Southeast Asia this situation has led to the following problems.(a)  Low Bank Account HoldingsThe percentages of people with bank accounts in Southeast Asian countries are just 31.8% in the Philippines  and 30.0% in Vietnam. In other counFig. 3   Credit Bureau Coverage Ratios for Individuals in Southeast  Asia (2016)(%)100806040200Vietnam Philippines Indonesia Thailand Malaysia SingaporeJapan(reference)Public agenciesPrivate agenciesNotes  Percentages of adult population.Source World Bank World Development IndicatorsRIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 tries the ratios are below 30% at 29.1% in Laos 25.6% in Myanmar and 17.8% in Cambodia (all figures from 2017 Table 2). There is also a disparity within the country based on income level and region. For example in many countries the percentages of lowincome and rural people with bank accounts are lower than the national averages. There are various reasons for the low percentage of people with bank accounts including a lack of nearby banks the difficulty and bother of submitting multiple identity verification documents application procedure taking several weeks before a bank account can be opened and the cost of bank account maintenance fees. In addition many people basically have no reason to open a bank account. On a global basis the number of people without bank accounts is about 2 billion or almost 40% of the world   s adult population (5.5 billion)(7). Almost 300 million of these people live in nine Southeast Asian countries(8). (b)   Limited Access to Bank Loans and Credit Cards Inadequate credit information systems make it difficult for banks to assess creditworthiness. For Table 2   Percentages of People with Bank Accounts in Southeast Asian CountriesBank account holding ratio (aged over 15 %)Upper Lower 60% by 40% by incomeincome96.180.276.936.020.317.517.422.110.397.599.088.483.656.636.541.236.828.022.898.7Rural   80.880.246.724.626.122.424.815.697.3SingaporeMalaysia Thailand Indonesia Vietnam Philippines LaosMyanmar Cambodia Japan (reference)97.885.181.048.430.031.829.125.617.898.2Number of ATMs per 100000 adults57.748.1113.154.724.527.124.32.76.7127.8Notes 2017 figures. ATMs for Cambodia are 2014 figures.Source World Bank Global Findex Database World Development Indicatorsthis reason banks find it difficult to provide loans and credit cards not only to people who have no bank accounts but even to those who hold accounts. In Thailand for instance access to loans is limited due to underdeveloped credit information systems despite the fact that a relatively high percentage (81.0%) of people have bank accounts.The percentages of people with credit cards are generally low in Southeast Asian countries. The ratio is 48.9% in Singapore and 21.3% in Malaysia and below 10% in other key Southeast Asian countries (Fig. 4). Since credit cards are issued by banks the low percentage of people with bank accounts is responsible for the low percentage of credit card holders. This situation has been aggravated by inadequacies in credit information systems. The inability to obtain financing from banks when  needed  has  an  even  greater  impact  on SMEs microenterprises and individual business operators than on individuals including missed growth opportunities and insufficient resilience to overcome emergency situations. In a survey conducted by the International Finance Corporation (IFC)(9) as many as 40% of informal enterprises (enterprises not registered with a local governFig. 4   Percentages of People with Credit Cards in Southeast Asia(%)706050403020100MyanmarCambodiaLaosPhilippinesIndonesiaVietnamThailand Malaysia Singapore Japan(reference)Notes 2017 figures.Source World Bank Global Financial Inclusion Database7RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 ment or tax department or individual business operators) in Malaysia Indonesia the Philippines and Vietnam stated that they needed finance but were unable to access it (Fig. 5). Given the high percentages of informal enterprises in these countries the negative effects of this situation are significant. Furthermore 60% of Indonesian SMEs (5250 employees) stated that they needed finance but were unable to access it indicating that formal as well as informal companies struggle to secure finance from banks. (c)  Low Utilization of Banking ServicesUsage  levels  are  low  not  only  for  loans  and credit cards but also for other banking services such as deposits and money transfers. Reasons for this include poor access to physical banking facilities such as branches and ATMs long lines at bank counters a lack of spare money to deposit in accounts because of low incomes and failure to think of using banking services due to low financial literacy rates. Indonesia has 54.7 ATMs per 100000 adults which is about 40% of Japan   s figure (127.8). The totals for Vietnam (24.5) and the Philippines (27.1) are just 20% of the figure for Japan (see Table 2 above). In the Philippines for example it takes an average of 25.9 minutes to reach a bank and the waiting time after arrival averages 32.9 minutes. Even with ATMs the situation is similar. It takes an average of 21.9 minutes to reach an ATM and the average time waiting in line is 16.5 minutes(10). Of course these times are averages. The Philippines has over 2000 inhabited islands and there are many places where the nearest ATM is several hours away by sea and overland. As the world   s largest archipelago nation with over 8000 inhabited islands Indonesia faces similar problems. Even when an ATM is installed on an island the cash is replenished only on a weekly basis resulting in situations where the machines run out of money less than three days after being refilled(11). Many people from the Philippines Indonesia Vietnam and other countries work overseas creating a need for workers to send money home to their families and for families to access that money. Despite these needs the systems are inconvenient and costly for both senders and receivers of these funds either because people do not have bank accounts or because of the poor accessibility of realworld facilities and the problems involved are  even  greater  than  those  affecting  domestic Fig. 5   Fulfillment of Financing Needs of SMEs in Four Southeast Asian CountriesMalaysiaIndonesiaPhilippinesVietnam(%)100(%)100(%)100(%)100806040200806040200806040200806040200InformalSMEsInformalSMEsInformalSMEsInformalSMEsFinance not neededFinance needed but not accessibleFinance obtained but insufficientFinancing needs metNotes Informal enterprise An enterprise not registered with a local government or tax department or a selfemployed person. Source IFC Enterprise Finance Gap Database (2011 data)SME Enterprises with 5250 employees.8RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 transfers. Moreover because of the high demand for money transfers these services are generally provided by money transfer operators who generally charge high commissions. (d)  CashBased SocietiesPeople who do not have bank accounts or credit cards must carry out money transactions in cash. As discussed later in this article cash transactions involve high handling costs and are an impediment to economic efficiency. In addition the difficulty of tracking cash transactions in cashcentered societies encourages the formation of underground economies and tends to have a negative impact on economic monitoring and tax collection. In  Indonesia  the  Philippines Vietnam  and Thailand  over  60%  of  wages  are  paid  only  in cash (Fig. 6). Concerning social security benefits 34.5% paid in cash in Indonesia and 57.2% in the Philippines (Fig. 7). Cash is the main medium for facetoface payments and even in ecommerce there is limited use of credit cards which are by far the dominant payment method in Japan. Many people do not have credit cards and even those that do refrain from using them because of security concerns. Cashondelivery is used for around 80% of ecommerce payments in Thailand and almost 70% in Indonesia (Fig. 8)(12). In this way cash is used to receive and pay money in everyday life. According to one survey over 70% of consumers in the Philippines and Indonesia frequently use cash as a payment medium in their daily lives (Fig. 9).The Southeast Asian country that is making the greatest progress toward a cashless society is Singapore. For example few people receive wages or social security benefits in cash and credit card usage is relatively high. Even so cash is still commonly used in some places such as hawker centers and small retail outlets(13). That is partly why Singapore   s ratio of cash flow balance to nominal GDP is above the 9.03% average for countries included in the statistics(14) at 10.36% (2016) indicating that its progress toward a cashless society is not great from a global perspective(15). (2)  Changes Caused by FintechWhat specifically can fintech achieve that were Fig. 6   Percentages of Workers Paid in Cash in Southeast Asian CountriesFig. 7   Percentage of Social Security Beneficiaries Paid in Cash in Southeast Asian Countries(%)80706050403020100(%)4035302520151050IndonesiaPhilippinesVietnamThailand Malaysia SingaporeJapan(reference)Indonesia Thailand Malaysia SingaporeJapan(reference)Notes Percentage of wageearners paid only in cash (2017 Notes  Percentage of social security beneficiaries paid figures).only in cash (2017 figures).Source World Bank Global Financial Inclusion databankSource World Bank Global Financial Inclusion databank9RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Fig. 8   ECommerce Payment Methods in Key Southeast Asian Countries  (March 2017)Indonesia(%)Thailand(%)Bank transfers9Credit cards25Cashondelivery66Credit cards21Cashondelivery79Philippines(%)SingaporeCashondelivery(%)1Bank transfers41Cashondelivery49Credit cards10Credit cards99Notes  Based on the results of an interview survey with EC companies in each country about methods used to obtain payment after the sale of physical goods excluding ticket purchases game charges etc. Source ecommerceIQ Southeast Asia Payment Methods Data Cashon delivery up despite onslaught of fintech March 29 2017Fig. 9   Most Common Payment Methods Used by Southeast Asian Consumers  (Percentages Indicating    Cash    in Survey Responses)7573704325 (%)80706050403020100Philippines Indonesia Thailand SingaporeChina(reference)Source PayPal Digital Payments Thinking beyond Transactions August 201710not previously possible? An analysis of issues in Southeast Asia   s financial environment provides the following answers to this question. First fintech has transformed mobile devices such as smartphones into portable ATMs allowing users to access basic financial services without needing to go to bank branches or ATMs. In addition it is now possible to use mobile devices to make payments both online and facetoface. The funds that can be used for these mobile payments is no longer limited to money tied up in bank accounts and credit cards thanks to the emergence of electronic money which can be used even by people who have no bank accounts or credit cards. With QR code payments(16) accepting electronic payments has become possible at low costs making this method attractive to retailers that handle smallticket items such as street vendors. At the same time fintech has made it possible RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 for financial service providers to acquire customer information more easily and at a lower cost than in the past. Identity verification processes can be completed more quickly and no longer need to be carried out at specific locations thanks to new methods such as image capturing of documents. The use of biometrics is also leading to faster processing and cost reduction.In  addition  financial  service  providers  have greatly expanded the range of information that they can acquire about both individuals and businesses by tracing their digital footprints. For individuals the content of a person   s social media posts  the  types  of  goods  they  buy  through  ecommerce and the sites that they access can to some extent be used to gauge their incomes and personal characters such as whether they are responsible enough to repay loans punctiliously. Digital footprints can also be used to assess the credit worthiness of SMEs which is usually difficult if you rely on conventional means. The financial position of an SME that has opened a store on an ecommerce site can be ascertained from various data such as sales figures and deposits to and withdrawals from payment accounts. Methods have been developed to allow rapid lowcost credit checking by automatically collecting and analyzing vast amounts of data without human intervention. One factor that has enabled Southeast Asia to benefit from fintech in these ways has been the growing availability of the Internet and smartphones in the region. The Internet and social media penetration rates have reached 53% and 47% respectively  (Fig.  10)(17)  while  40%  of  people have bank accounts and over 3.5% are credit card holders(18). This situation is driving the continual emergence of fintech businesses based on the use of the Internet and smartphones in Southeast Asia. (3)  Characteristics of Southeast Asian Fintech BusinessesSome  of  the  fintech  companies  that  have emerged in Southeast Asia are not much different from their counterparts in developed countries. However  there  are  also  many  businesses  with characteristics that are unique to Southeast Asia and emerging countries. Overall the following three characteristics can be observed. First many of these businesses are being established to solve problems. This reflects the numerous issues that the Southeast Asian financial sector faces. Founders of fintech startups in this area begin not by thinking about what they can achieve with  fintech  but  by  identifying  problems  and considering whether they can use fintech to solve them. Second the underlying technologies and business  models  utilized  by  fintech  businesses  in Fig. 10   Access to Digital Systems in Southeast AsiaInternet penetration rateSocial media penetration rateSocial media penetration rate (via mobile devices)53%47%42%Source We are Social Singapore Digital in 2017 Global Overview 2017 (https//wearesocial.com/sg/)11RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Southeast Asia were generally not developed in the region but were instead imported from developed countries and China. Southeast Asian entrepreneurs and business owners identify financial issues in the region and scour the world for fintech technologies and business models with the potential to solve those issues. They then integrate these technologies and business models into their own business operations. From another point of view which relates back to the first characteristic of these businesses fintech is fundamentally a tool for solving problems and little importance is attached to where the technology was originally developed or whether it is simply a rehash of another technology. Third the fintech businesses in Southeast Asia employ business models that combine both hightech and lowtech methods. Countries normally make progress gradually by introducing technology in stages but because emerging and developing  countries  have  fallen  behind  developed countries they are generally able to    leapfrog    intermediate stages and achieve rapid evolution by introducing the latest technology. While Southeast Asian fintech companies adopt cuttingedge technologies and business models they also retain traditional methods that seem unsuited to the digital age from the perspective of developed countries. For example even in situations where mobile payment services are available those services cannot be accessed fully from mobile devices and must be complemented by ancillary services provided by partners such as small retailers in local communities. One reason for this is the fact digital businesses and other types of businesses have not evolved at the same pace in Southeast Asia resulting in gaps that do not exist in developed countries. A good example is that many people have smartphones but not bank accounts a basic necessity from a developed country   s point of view.In the following section we will look at fintech businesses that illustrate these characteristics. 123.  Typical Fintech Businesses in Southeast Asia(1)  Mobile Payment Services(a)  Typical Scheme Mobile  payment  services  that  have  emerged in Southeast Asia are basically the same as those in  developed  countries.  However  one  feature that is not common in developed countries is the availability of measures that can be used by people who do not have bank accounts. As in other emerging and developing countries most mobile phones are prepaid types for which call charges must be paid in advance. Users top up from bank accounts or in cash through local retail outlets and convenience stores. Many of the mobile payments have features that you can load electronic money in the same way. (b)  Case Study MoMo(19) MoMo is a  payment service in Vietnam operated  by  the  startup  M_Service. The  company launched the service in 2009 after perceiving a business opportunity resulting from two factors. First most lowincome people were unable to access financial services. Second smartphones were rapidly becoming common in Vietnam including rural areas. Initially M_Service provided payment services using SIM cards but in 2014 it switched to its own mobile payment app called    MoMo   (20). The app can be used to load electronic money and carry out various transactions relating to electronic payments including money transfers between individuals utility charge payments online shopping payments and airline ticket reservations. In response to the current environment in Vietnam M_Service   s target user base includes not only people with bank accounts but also people with bank accounts but no local access to bank branches or ATMs people without bank accounts and even people who do not own smartphones. To meet the needs of this broad customer base M_Service has established a network of around 4000 agents throughout Vietnam. These agents enable RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 people who cannot go to bank branches or ATMs as well as people without bank accounts to load prepaid electronic money for use in mobile payments and to receive cash transferred to them. Those who do not own smartphones can have the agents use their mobile payment facilities to transfer funds or pay utility charges on their behalf. Currently about onehalf of MoMo customers are users of mobile payment services while the other half use agent services(21). The company   s approach reflects the situation in Vietnam where customer needs for financial services cannot be met  solely  through  mobile  devices. They  even offer a feature that allows users to find the nearest agent using the GPS function on their smartphones. In rural areas of Vietnam post offices play an important  role  in  providing  financial  services such as remittances and payments for people who do not have bank accounts. However these services are not entirely customerfriendly. For example  counters normally close at 5 p.m. and remittances take 34 days(22)(23). MoMo agents have longer operating hours than post offices and remittances reach recipients instantly. In November 2017 M_Service entered into a partnership with Vietnam Sun Corporation (Vinasun) a major local taxi operator(24) and announced several new services. One of them is that when boarding a Vinasun taxi the user will be able to pay with electronic money through the MoMo app by using the smartphone to scan the QR code provided by the driver. Another is passengers who book Vinasun taxis using the Vinasun app will be able to link with the MoMo app so that they can pay automatically. In  addition  to  service  content  M_Service claims that it has made security a priority with the MoMo system. It meets the PCI DSS(25) standard and has also adopted layered security measures such as onetime password verification and SSL(26). (2)  Money Transfers Using Just a Mobile Phone Number (a)  Typical Scheme This service allows a recipient to link a bank account number to his or her mobile phone number. Thereafter money can be transferred to that person simply by entering the mobile phone number. Services of this type are already being introduced worldwide by telecommunications companies and banks. What is unique about this kind of service in Southeast Asia is the fact it is being promoted by the governments of both Singapore and Thailand. Their aim is to improve the convenience of credit transfers and payments as part of efforts by governments private sector financial institutions and other organizations to develop electronic payment infrastructure in these countries. (b)  Case Study PayNow (Singapore) PromptPay (Thailand)Established under an initiative led by the Association of Banks in Singapore and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) the PayNow bank account  transfer  service  has  been  available  in Singapore since July 2017. Using a smartphone funds can be transferred almost instantly and with no transfer fees by entering the mobile number or national ID number that the recipient has linked to his or her bank account. Currently the system is limited to person to person (P2P) payments but there are plans to extend it to accommodate person to business (P2B) payments including payments to taxi operators hawkers (street vendors) and selfemployed people and B2P payments such as wages and insurance payments(27). Thailand   s equivalent service PromptPay was introduced even earlier in January 2017 under an initiative led by the Thai Banking Association and Bank of Thailand Thailand   s central bank. Funds can be transferred via a smartphone Internet banking or an ATM by entering one of five types of numbers such as a mobile phone number or national ID number(28). Transfers are free for amounts up to 5000 baht (about   17000). Charges apply for larger amounts but overall costs are 13RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 low(29). PromptPay was initially available for P2P transfers  but  it  now  also  accommodates  B2B transfers based on taxpayer (company) IDs. Future plans call for further expansion of the system to include other types of payments such as utility charges. By the end of August 2017 a month after the launch of the service the number of registered PayNow users had exceeded 500000(30). Given Singapore   s population of 5.5 million this figure is indicative of steady growth. By October 2017 the number of registered PromptPay users had reached  24  million  or  onethird  of Thailand   s population (68 million)(31). In  July  2017  MAS  and  Bank  of  Thailand agreed to cooperate in the fintech area and are now working toward the interlinkage of PayNow and PromptPay. Once this is achieved it will be possible to transfer money between Singapore and Thailand instantly and safely simply by entering the other party   s mobile phone number(32). (3)  Mobile International Remittance Services(a)  Typical SchemeMany people in Southeast Asian countries especially the Philippines work overseas. These people  generally  remit  funds  each  month  to their families in their home countries primarily through specialist money transfer operators such as MoneyGram and Western Union. Many expatriate workers do not have bank accounts and even those that do are eager to avoid the high transfer charges levied by banks(33). With money transfer operators transfers commonly involve timeconsuming manual processes and it takes time for the money to reach the recipients.  This situation has recently led to the emergence of services that allow people to remit money overseas easily and at low prices using mobile devices. (b)  Case Study Toast (1)(34)Toast (head office Singapore) provides international remittance services that allow Philippine 14people working in other countries to send money back home using mobile devices. The service is currently available in Hong Kong and Singapore but the company aims to increase the range of countries in the future. The cofounder and CEO is Aaron Siwoku from the United Kingdom. He had the idea for the service after seeing Philippine women waiting in long lines to send money home and noticing that they all had smartphones in their hands(35). The person making the remittance loads funds though a smartphone app and then completes the transfer process. There are multiple ways to load funds including transfers from a bank account. Users can also load cash at affiliated stores. To use this method the person wishing to make a remittance first scans identification documents into his or her mobile phone and then goes to an affiliated store to hand over the cash. This saves time since confirmation of identity which previously had to be carried out in the store can now be completed in advance on a smartphone. Another advantage of this system is that it is based on a familiar remittance method and is therefore easy for users to accept(36). A method that would allow the entire process to be completed on a mobile device would be more convenient but there is a risk that existing customers would not use such a service because of the psychological resistance to new ways of doing things. Recipients in the Phlippines can choose from three  methods  for  receiving  remittances. They can have the money sent to the Toast app or their bank account or obtain cash at an affiliated retail outlet. This means that the service can be used even if neither the remitter nor recipient has a bank account. The service fee is set low. There is no charge for remittances from Hong Kong to the Philippines using the Toast App while a charge of HKD15 (about USD2) is levied when funds are transferred to a bank account and there is a HKD19 (about USD2.4) charge for transfers to an affiliated retail outlet. Toast plans to use data accumulated through its remittance services to start a lending business for overseas workers. By monitoring monthly remittance amounts the company can estimate the inRIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 comes of overseas workers to some extent as the basis for determining their creditworthiness(37). (4)  Lending Services Based on the Use of Alternative Data(a)  Typical Scheme Credit screening schemes based on the use of digital footprints as alternative data have emerged in Southeast Asia. Credit providers have developed these schemes themselves or purchased them from  other  sources. The  fact  that  credit  is  not widely available in Southeast Asia is attributable in large part to the inadequacy of credit information systems which makes it difficult to assess the creditworthiness of potential borrowers. By using alternative data as the basis for credit checks lenders are able to target new borrowers who were previously overlooked due to the lack of credit histories. In addition to the benefits for borrowers this approach is also expected to allow credit providers to expand their customer bases. (b)  Case Study LenddoScore(38)Lenddo (head office Singapore) provides personal credit scores (   LenddoScore   ) and identity verification (   Lenndo Verification   ) services to organizations such as banks microfinance providers and credit card companies. The credit score service is based on the perception that there are a certain number of people who are creditworthy despite having no data registered with credit information agencies and that the repayment capacity and commitment of such people can be ascertained to some extent by analyzing their digital footprints since they generally own smartphones. Lenddo launched a lending business in the Philippines in 2011 and subsequently expanded into other countries including Colombia and Mexico. However it sold the lending business in 2015 and has since specialized in providing services to third parties. It currently offers its services in over 15 countries. In addition to data provided by credit bureaus Lenndo also collects and analyses alternative data with the consent of loan applicants. Using this data it calculates a credit score (11000 where a higher score indicates a higher credit rating) using its own proprietary method and supplies this information to banks and other organizations. The types of data gathered include smartphone usage data social media data and psychometric data (Fig. 11). For example social media data gathered include pages accessed on Facebook LinkedIn Twitter and the like access frequencies the number of friends and the content of messages. If credit bureaus have data those are also incorporated.  Based  on  12000  data  items  per  case Lenddo calculates a score using an AI prediction algorithm. The process takes just three minutes. Digital footprints are also used for the identify verification service which can be completed in three seconds. Lenddo boasts that the system is highly accurate. Other advertised benefits include the  fact  that  lenders  can  reduce  the  amount  of documentation collected from customers and the number of credit checks that need to be carried out by human staff. Table 3 summarizes the four services of fintech businesses described in this section. Fig. 11   Main Data Items Used in Credit Assessments by LenndoCredit bureau dataSocial networksEcommerce transactionsMobile dataBrowser dataTelecom dataFinancial transactionsPsychometric dataSource Lenddo website (https//www.lenddo.com/)15RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Table 3   Typical Examples of Fintech Businesses in Southeast AsiaFintech serviceTypical exampleProviderCountryRemarks(1) Mobile payment services MoMo (2)Money transfers using a mobile phone numberPayNow M_Service JSC (HQ Vietnam)Nine major banks (DBS OCBC UOB etc.)Vietnam SingaporePromptPay All banks in Thailand Thailand (3)Overseas remittance service via mobile devicesToast Toast Me Pte Ltd. (HQ Singapore) Singapore Hong Kong Philippines(4)Lending using alternative data  LenddoScore Lenddo Pte Ltd. (HQ Singapore)  Over 15 countries including the Philippines Thailand and IndonesiaSource Compiled by JRI using information from corporate/organization websites etc.Also available to people without bank accountsLed by the Association of Banks in Singapore and Monetary Authority of SingaporeLed by Thai Banking Association and Bank of ThailandDesigned to allow Philippine workers in Singapore and Hong Kong to send money homeBased on smartphone usage data social network usage histories etc. 4.  Mobile Payment Trends in Southeast Asia(1)  Chinese Companies Making InroadsAs described earlier in this article mobile payment services are leading the fintech sector in Southeast Asia. Many companies have already moved into this area. In Vietnam for example by the start of 2017 the number of nonbanks licensed  to  provide  payment  services  including mobile payment services had reached 16(39). The result is a freeforall battle for business in which financial institutions are also involved. Similar situations  are  emerging  in  other  countries  albeit with some variation. No clear winners have so far emerged. The Chinese companies Alibaba and Tencent are sooner or later expected to step up their efforts to establish inroads into this area. GoJek and Grab which are powerful ridehailing startups are meanwhile moving to take control of general electronic payment services in Southeast Asia. This section will analyze developments surrounding the mobile payment business. Both Alibaba and Tencent are starting to make significant  inroads  into  the  Internet  sector  in Southeast Asia. Alibaba  has  acquired  Lazada the region   s biggest ecommerce site and RedMart a major Lazadabased online seller of food and household goods in Singapore. Alibaba has also invested in Tokopedia Indonesia   s biggest ecommerce site. Through moves such as these it has established a major presence in the Southeast Asian ecommerce market (Table 4). Tencent has invested in Southeast Asia   s biggest Internet company Sea (formerly Garena) which operates online games and other services VNG which is Vietnam   s biggest Internet company and GoJek. Other moves include the acquisition of Sanook Online the biggest online portal in Thailand and investment in Ookbee a major Thai digital content platform provider. Both Alibaba  and Tencent  are  also  steadily building a presence in the payment area in Southeast Asia. Both companies in China enhanced their understanding of consumers by collecting and analyzing their customers    payment data. They then used this knowledge not only to strengthen their existing  businesses  but  also  to  create  foundations for the development of new businesses. The natural approach for them would be to attempt to replicate this approach in Southeast Asia. Alibaba has taken the lead and is working to make use of Alipay an ecommerce site that it has acquired in 16RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Table 4   Main Activities of Alibaba in Southeast AsiaMay 2014Alibaba agrees to buy 10.35% of postal giant Singapore Post and enter into a strategic partnership to improve delivery networks for items sold on its platform. November 2015 Alibaba invests in SeriesC funding for Singaporean startup MDaq which enables companies to process overseas transactions cheaply.April 2016Alibaba invests $1 billion in Lazada a major ecommerce company based in Singapore and acquires management control rights.     Lazada was established in Germany by Rocket Internet in 2011.      It has developed business operations in Indonesia Malaysia the Philippines Singapore Thailand and Vietnam. October 2016Alibaba increases its stake in Singapore Post to 14.4% through an additional investment. November 2016 Ant Financial announces the acquisition of a 20% shareholding in the online payment company Ascend Money (Thailand) with the option to acquire a further 10%. It also agrees to form a strategic partnership.      Ant Financial is the financial wing of Alibaba.       The Ascend Group to which Ascend Money is affiliated was spun off from True Corporation (a member of the CP Group) a major telecoms carrier in Thailand in 2015. It is now affiliated to True   s parent company CP Group.      The target customers for Ascend Money are online payment users and consumers who have no banking accounts.November 2016 Lazada acquires RedMart an online food and household goods retailer in Singapore.      Established in 2011 RedMart has developed its business in Singapore. February 2017Ant Financial invests in Globe Fintech Innovations (Mynt) and enters into a strategic partnership.      Mynt is a finance company affiliated to Globe Telecom a major telecoms carrier in the Philippines.April 2017April 2017June 2017June 2017July 2017Ant Financial merges with the HelloPay Group which operates a payment platform on Lazada.     HelloPay is renamed    Alipay   . Ant Financial enters into a partnership with Elang Mahkota Teknologi (Emtek) Indonesia   s secondranked media company.      The companies plan to provide a payment platform based on the BlackBerry social messaging system.Alibaba undertakes a further investment of approximately $1 billion in Lazada increasing its shareholding from 51% to 83%. Alibaba announces that it will launch Tmall World a Chineselanguage ecommerce site serving Singapore Malaysia Hong Kong and Taiwan. Ant Financial enters into a partnership with Touch   n Go a subsidiary of CIMB a major Malaysian bank.      Touch   n Go provides prepaid payment cards.August 2017Ant Financial forms a partnership with the Singaporean company Fave.      Fave provides discounts for realworld outlets such as restaurants fitness centers and beauty parlors.     Chinese tourists who use Alipay are now eligible for discounts. August 2017Alibaba invests $1.1 billion in Tokopedia (Indonesia) and becomes a minority shareholder.      Established in 2009 Tokopedia is Indonesia   s biggest ecommerce platform. Source Compiled by JRI on the basis of newspaper reportsSoutheast Asia. Alibaba also has focused on the steady growth in the number of Chinese visitors to Southeast Asia and is working on creating an environment in which they can use Alipay in brickandmortar stores as they do in China. (2)  Entry of RideHailing Startups In China mobile payment services first began to  spread  through  ecommerce  but  have  since started to be used in facetoface transactions in brickandmortar stores following the introduction of QR codes. In addition to this transition from online payments to facetoface payments electronic  payment  services  in  Southeast Asia could also expand into mobile payment services through a transition from facetoface payments to online payments. As noted earlier in this article this is because the scale of online payments is still small and services that allow mobile payments to be used in facetoface transactions are being introduced one after another. There has been particular interest in the mobile payment services provided by the ridehailing service companies GoJek and Grab. GoJek is based in  Indonesia  Southeast Asia   s  biggest  country in terms of population while Grab has its headquarters in Malaysia and is expanding its business 17RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 operations throughout Southeast Asia. Both have grown to the extent that they now rank among the few    unicorns    (unlisted companies with market valuations over $1 billion) in Southeast Asia. Both companies provide taxi and biketaxi services and it is not surprising that facetoface payments for these services would lead to the use of mobile payments by consumers. Developments surrounding these two companies are outlined below. (a)  GoJekFounded in Indonesia in 2010 GoJek began to provide the biketaxi ridehailing app GoJek in Jakarta in 2015. GoJek   s services have become extremely popular in part because people in Jakarta use biketaxis frequently because of the city   s underdeveloped public transport systems and congested streets. Since then the company has extended its service areas and expanded its range of services initially as a way of providing a useful way for drivers to use their free time. Currently it offers a wide variety of services including food deliveries from restaurants (GoFood) food deliveries from stores (GoMart) home cleaning (GoClean) and masseur services at the customer   s location (GoMassage). One of those services is the GoPay electronic payment system.By  downloading  the  GoPay  app  onto  their smartphones users can pay for GoJek services with  credit  loaded  into  the  app.  Credit  can  be loaded through transfers from bank accounts or deposits at ATMs. To allow people who do not have bank accounts to use the services cash can also be paid to GoJek drivers. In addition to the convenience  of  not  needing  to  engage  in  cash transactions by the side of road after using a biketaxi the system also matches conditions in Indonesia where only a small percentage of people have bank accounts. Usage has expanded rapidly since it first became available in 2016 and currently 5060% of GoJek rides are paid for using GoPay(40). Moreover GoPay is now the fourth most commonly used form of electronic money in Indonesia(41). GoJek aims to promote the use of  GoPay not only for payments for its own services but also for electronic payments in general in Indonesia. 18Users can already use GoPay credit to make payments in affiliated stores and they can transfer money to other users free of charge simply by entering a telephone number. In addition credit can be cashed at affiliated banks. In December 2017 GoJek acquired three fintech companies(42) with the aim of expanding the areas in which GoPay can be used(43). According to figures released by the company GoJek has 900000 contracted drivers. This number is far larger than the number of bank branches (25000) and ATMs (103000) in Indonesia. The company   s founder and CEO Nadiem Makarim recently said that GoJek will use its drivers as financial access points to reach a wide range of consumers including people who have previously not been able to use financial services(44). GoJek aims to become a leading player in electronic payments in Indonesia and across Southeast Asia. During an interview GoJek   s President Andre Soelistyo  said  that  his  company   s  goal  was  to build GoPay   s presence in Southeast Asia to the same level as Alipay and WeChatPay in China(45). (b)  Grab Grab was established in Malaysia in 2012 as a startup providing the GrabTaxi taxi hailing service. It has since relocated its headquarters to Singapore. While GoJek has specialized in Indonesia Grab provides its services not only Singapore and Malaysia but also in Indonesia Thailand Vietnam the Philippines Myanmar and Cambodia. It has gradually expanded the scope of its services which include    GrabCar    a ridesharing system for private cars and    GrabHitch    a system that allows people to hitch rides with people going in the same direction. Like GoJek its services also include an electronic payment system called    Grabpay.    GrabPay  is  used  in  basically  the  same  way as GoPay. Initially it was necessary to link the GrabPay smartphone app to a credit card in order to load credit but other methods have since been added including deposits through bank ATMs Internet banking and affiliated convenience stores. As a result the system can now be used by people who do not have credit cards or bank accounts. In RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Singapore over 75% of Grab service users pay through GrabPay(46). Like GoJek Grab wants its GrabPay system be used not only to pay for its own services but for a wide range of other purposes throughout Southeast Asia. In a press release the company   s cofounder Tan Hooi Ling said that Grab wants to be the region   s leading payments platform(47). The company plans to focus initially on expanding the use of GrabPay in small retail outlets which currently operate primarily on a cash basis followed by expansion into the online payment area(48). As part of this strategy it has been working since November 2017 to promote GrabPay to restaurants and hawkers (street vendors) in Singapore. In 2017 Grab acquired Kudo an Indonesian startup established in 2014 to operate an onlinetooffline  (O2O)  platform.  Kudo  provides  services that allow people without bank accounts to make online purchases or buy mobile phone credit through  the  company   s  agents(49).  By  purchasing Kudo Grab has acquired a network of over 500000 agents in 500 cities and towns in Indonesia. It plans to use this network to enhance the convenience of GrabPay including the expansion of locations where credit can be loaded and to capture ecommerce payment business in Indonesia. Longerterm it also aims to handle insurance and consumer loans through Kudo(50)(51).(3)  Expanding Use through Multiple ChannelsWhy are providers of ridehailing apps playing such a prominent role in the mobile payment business in Southeast Asia? Possible reasons include the fact that taxis and biketaxis are familiar modes of transport for the public and both GoJek and Grab have high overall shares of the markets in which they have rolled out their services. An incentive for frequent users is the availability of a simple way to make cashless payments instead of muddling with cash. The mobile payment systems provided by GoJek and Grab began for use with their own services but the range in which the systems can be used has gradually expanded. The companies hope that people who get used to paying for taxi or biketaxi rides with GoPay or GrabPay will also use the systems for other payments including online payments. Going forward they want to play a leading role in the development of cashless payments and financial inclusiveness in Southeast Asia. From these perspectives we can probably expect to see a gradual increase in the use of mobile payments in Southeast Asia both through the use of  mobile  payments  for  ecommerce  and  also through use of mobile payments for facetoface payments when using ridehailing services. 5.  Southeast Asian Governments    Expectations toward Fintech(1)  Fintech Promotion Measures (Focused on Singapore)Southeast Asian governments have taken a keen interest in the emergence of various fintech businesses in the region. Recognizing the potential of fintech to change the face of finance governments are eager to ensure its sound development so that it leads to the improvement and advancement of their countries    finance systems. Governments in each country are implementing a range of measures including the formulation of policies the establishment of specialist fintech units within financial  regulatory  and  supervisory  agencies and the introduction of regulatory sandboxes(52) (Table 5). Singapore has shown the greatest enthusiasm for the promotion of fintech. It hopes that fintech will (1) solve issues (2) provide indirect support for Singapore   s evolution as a smart nation and (3) maintain and strengthen Singapore   s status as an international financial center. Concerning the first of these goals while Singapore already has a fully developed financial system there are still issues that need to be solved. The government is exploring the potential to use 19RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Table 5   FintechRelated Measures in Key Southeast Asian CountriesMalaysia Dec. 2011Formulation of the Financial Sector Blueprint 2020 as a vision for financial sector in 2020    Increase in the number of electronic payments per person from 44 in 2010 to 200Feb. 2015Announcement of regulations for investmenttype crowd funding by Securities Commission MalaysiaApril 2016Announcement of regulations for P2P lending by Securities Commission MalaysiaJune 2016Establishment of the Financial Technology Enabler Group (FTEG) within the Malaysian central bank         Formulation and strengthening of regulatory policies to promote innovation in the financial sector Support for innovation that contributes to improvement in the quality efficiency and accessibility of financial servicesOct. 2016Introduction of a regulatory sandbox by FTEGThailand May 2015Announcement of regulations relating to crowd funding by the Securities and Exchange Commission of ThailandDec. 2015Approval of an epayment master plan by the Thai cabinet and Ministry of Finance 2016 Progressive introduction of regulatory sandboxes for securities derivatives KYC etc. by the Securities and Exchange Commission of ThailandDec. 2016Introduction of regulatory sandboxes by Bank of ThailandJan. 2017Launch of the PromptPay C2C electronic money transfer service May 2017Introduction of regulatory sandboxes by the Thai Insurance CommissionIndonesia Aug. 2014Nov. 2016Launch of the    National NonCash Movement    by Bank Negara Indonesia     An initiative to encourage people to use noncash payment methodsEstablishment of a specialist unit (the Fintech Office) within Bank Negara Indonesia     Risk assessment and mitigation fintechrelated surveysNov. 2016Introduction of regulatory sandboxes by Bank Negara IndonesiaDec. 2016June 2017PhilippinesDec. 2015Jan. 2017Feb. 2017Announcement of P2P lending regulations by the Financial Services Authority    Introduction of registration system Establishment of the FinTech Advisory Forum by the Financial Services Authority     Establishment of strategic direction for the development of the fintech industry Announcement of a framework for a    National Retail Payment System    by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas     A framework of standards for retail payments in the Philippines and management regulations and policies     Designed to promote a society that is less dependent on cashBangko Sentral ng Pilipinas approval for banks to provide services to their customers through cash agencies (Circular 940)Announcement by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas of regulations concerning money transfers by nonbanks including emoney issuers and money transfer platform providers (Circular 942)Feb. 2017Announcement by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas of regulations concerning virtual currencies (Circular 944)March 2017 Announcement by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas of regulations to allow the use of technology instead of facetoface contacts for KYC processes when banks commence transactions with new customers (Circular 950)March 2017 Announcement by Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas of guidelines concerning social media risk management (Circular 949)Vietnam Dec. 2014Recognition of ewallets as payment services by the State Bank of Vietnam (Circular 39)Jan. 2017Installation of card readers in all supermarkets shopping malls and retail storesAnnouncement by the Vietnamese government of a plan to make Vietnam cashless by 2020         70% of water electric power and telecommunications utilities accepting card payments or online payments    Increase in the percentage of the 15andolder population with bank accounts to at least 70%March 2017 Establishment of the SBV Steering Committee on FinTech by the State Bank of Vietnam     Acceleration of the development of fintech companies under government guidelines Notes  See Table 6 and 7 for information about policies in Singapore. Source Compiled by JRI using government press releases media reports and other sources20RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 fintech to solve or mitigate these issues. For example it aims to use blockchain technology to improve crossborder payment mechanisms timewise and costwise compared to the existing methods through correspondent banks. In addition the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) are jointly implementing a blockchainbased digitalization project to improve the efficiency of trade finance which at present still involves the exchange of large amounts of paper documents. In relation to the second point Singapore has made the    Smart Nation    concept a national strategy for the realization of its goal of becoming a knowledge and innovationintensive economy. Singapore is already a highincome country. The only  way  that  it  can  maintain  its  position  as  a frontrunner in the world economy is to open up paths to industrial advancement and economic development through its own innovation initiatives. Obviously fintech is vital to this strategy since IT will play a vital role in both finance and financial innovation in a knowledge and innovationintensive economy. MAS believes that to become a    Smart Nation    Singapore also needs to become a    Smart Financial Centre.    It sees fintech as the key to the realization of the    Smart Financial Centre    concept which it introduced in 2015. Concerning the third point the financial sector is one of the most important industries. In 2016 it accounted for 13.1% of Singapore   s GDP. Maintaining and improving the industry   s international competitiveness and the ability as a financial center to attract business from financial institutions around the world have consistently been national priorities for Singapore. To achieve these goals Singapore needs to stay at the cutting edge of finance and to reap the benefits of innovation as quickly as possible. These expectations are reflected in the Singaporean government   s efforts to promote fintech which are based on two approaches. First the government is striving to optimize fintechrelated regulations. According to the MAS the requirements for fintech regulation are to maintain the stability of the financial system and the soundness of key players and to protect consumer interests while also helping to accelerate financial innovation(53). Table 6 summarizes the main fintech regulations that have been introduced from these perspectives. MAS has placed particular emphasis on cyber security and it has introduced a variety of measures based on its view that to promote fintech it will be necessary to build reliability by ensuring security. In 2017 MAS established the Cyber Security Advisory Panel and created the post of Chief Cyber Security Officer within its organization. Second Singapore is developing infrastructure to encourage the use of fintech. It is creating soil for an ecosystem that will continually create fintech innovations and allow them to grow bigger. To ensure that the full benefit of these products can be realized the government is also creating common fintech business standards and supporting fintech interoperability. The main infrastructure elements created so far are listed in Table 7. Just as Singapore is enthusiastically promoting fintech other countries are also showing strong interest. They have particularly strong expectations toward the potential of fintech to improve financial inclusion and create a cashless society. We will now look at these two aspects.(2)  Improving Financial Inclusion Lowincome and lowermiddleincome countries in Southeast Asia have problems relating to financial inclusion(54) specifically the fact that a significant number of people are unable to access financial services. Financial inclusion is a key policy priority in these countries because of its potential to contribute to poverty eradication and economic development. A variety of initiatives have been implemented over many years. Even in Thailand a middleincome country where a relatively high percentage of its people have bank accounts bank loans and insurance are not widely available. Because of this the government is taking a keen interest in financial inclusion(55). While Singapore has largely achieved financial inclusion its government sees this as a problem for Southeast Asia as a whole. 21RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Table 6   Main Fintech Regulations Introduced by the Monetary Authority of  Singapore (MAS)Payments       Payment  regulations  which  were  previously  divided  into  two  categories  according  to  the  type  of  payment business (Note) have been integrated into activitybased regulations based on a single license.      This step was taken in response to fintechrelated ambiguities and complexities concerning payment business categories. Cloud services      Guidelines have been created for the use of cloud services by financial institutions.       Formulated in response to an increase in the use of cloud services by financial institutions these guidelines clarify the risks involved and the obligations and responsibilities of financial institutions. Financial advice       To facilitate participation in online financial advisory services (robot advisors) the requirements for participation in the financial advisory have been eased compared with those that apply to conventional financial advisory services subject to certain safeguards.      This will allow investors to benefit from lowcost investment advice. Insurance      Insurance companies are now allowed to provide all types of life insurance online without advice.      Guidelines have been formulated concerning safeguards relating to the online sale of life insurance products. Regulatory sandboxes      In November 2016 MAS announced guidelines concerning regulatory sandboxes for fintech.       These allow eligible companies to trial innovative financial services for a specific period in a relaxed regulatory environment subject to certain limits. Cyber security      Cyber  security  measures  have  been  strengthened  in  recognition  of  the  need  for  reliable  cyber  security  to encourage the use of new technology and innovative services.       In September 2017 the Cyber Security Advisory Panel was formed. The panel consists of international experts on cybersecurity.      In October 2017 a Chief Cyber Security Officer was appointed within the MAS. Notes The Payment Systems Oversight Act and the Moneychanging and Remittance Business Act.Source Monetary Authority of Singapore    Proposed Activitybased Payments Framework and Establishment of a National Pay    ments Council    (consultation paper P0092016) August 2016 Monetary Authority of Singapore    MAS Issues New Guidelines on Outsourcing Risk Management; Introduces Guidance on Cloud Services    (media release) July 2016 Monetary Authority of Singapore    Facilitating the Provision of Digital Advisory Services    (media release) June 7 2017 Monetary Authority of Singapore    Guidelines on the Online Distribution of Life Policies with no Advice    March 31 2017 Monetary Authority of Singapore    Fintech Regulatory Sandbox Guidelines    November 2016Table 7   Infrastructure Created by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) to  Facilitate FintechProvision of environments for collaboration and experimentationElectronic payment infrastructure       Looking Glass@MAS was opened in August 2016 as fintech innovation laboratory.       Lattice 80 was opened in November 2016 as a hub for fintech startups.       In July 2017 the Association of Banks in Singapore with the cooperation of MAS introduce the PayNow service which allows funds to be transferred between individuals    bank accounts using mobile telephone numbers or national ID (or alien registration) numbers.       The service can be used by linking an account in any of the nine banks participating in the scheme with a telephone number or national ID number.       The service can be used free of charge on a 24/365 basis and allows funds to be transferred almost instantly.      It meets the needs of customers who want to transfer funds simply and efficiently. Stateowned KYC businesses       The MyInfo egovernment personal information management service is being extended to the financial sector to  improve  the  efficiency  of  KYC  processes  (Note)  by  allowing  the  use  of  personal  data  collected  by  the government.       The aim is to make banks    KYC processes less burdensome. Blockchain infrastructure for interbank crossborder payments       In collaboration with R3 which administers the Blockchain Consortium MAS the Singapore Exchange and a consortium of banks are working toward proof of concept for the use of blockchain technology in crossborder interbank payments in foreign currencies.       This initiative is part of the blockchain interbank payment project (Project Ubin). Phase 1 (completed) focused on domestic interbank payments. The target from Phase 2 onwards will be crossborder payments.       Using cash as security banks will acquire digital currency issued by MAS for use in transfers between banks.       This system is expected to involve less time and cost and provide greater resilience than the existing system of transfers through correspondent banks under centralized management. Open API      Financial institutions will be encouraged to develop and adopt API with as much openness as possible.       MAS and the Association of Banks in Singapore have jointly published the    FinanceasaService API Playbook    as guidelines for the use of open API by financial institutions. Notes KYC (   know your customer   ) refers to the customer identity verification procedures that financial institutions are required to carry out when opening new accounts. Source Monetary Authority of Singapore    Singapore   s FinTech Journey   Where We Are What is Next   Speech by Mr. Ravi Menon Managing Director Monetary Authority of Singapore at Singapore FinTech Festival  FinTech Conference on 16 November 2016    November 16 2016The Association of Banks in Singapore PayNow website (https//abs.org.sg/consumerbanking/paynow)    22RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Governments in various countries are promoting fintech as a way to achieve financial inclusion. Indonesia and the Philippines have adopted national strategies for financial inclusion while Myanmar has drawn up a financial inclusion roadmap. Indonesia   s strategy highlights the use of ICT while the Philippines is focusing on the power of technology. Myanmar   s roadmap points to the potential of mobile devices (Table 8). While Vietnam has not formulated a national strategy the Deputy Governor of its central bank has acknowledged the role of fintech saying that    digital technology will help banks accelerate financial inclusion (56).    In fact many of the fintech services that have emerged in Southeast Asia can lead to greater financial inclusion. As illustrated by the previously  mentioned examples even people without credit cards or bank accounts are able to benefit from various financial services by using mobile devices. The use of mobile payments can also encourage people to set up bank accounts. This expectation has been heightened by the success of the MPesa mobile money transfer service in Kenya. The spread of that system has led to a major improvement in financial inclusion in Kenya(57). Mobile overseas money transfer services offer a way to send money abroad at lower costs than traditional methods. This reduces the financial burden on people working overseas and their families. Also the increase in lending based on alternative data is improving access to loans for certain segments that were previously unable to obtain finance. This means for example that SMEs will be able to free themselves from a handtomouth existence  by  obtaining  loans  to  buy  the  latest equipment so that they can increase their earnings. Awareness of these benefits is prompting governments  to  promote  fintech  while  also  taking steps to ensure that fintech contributes to financial inclusion. In addition to initiatives to improve the usability of services such as encouraging service providers to achieve interoperability between different mobile payment platforms governments are also ensuring that users can access financial services safely through supervision regulation and the prosecution of fraud. Other government initiatives include educational activities to enable users to make the best use of financial services. Southeast Asian countries are looking closely at financial inclusion policies in India. The Singapore FinTech Festival hosted by the MAS in November 2017 included a session on India and the  Indian  Minister  of  Finance  was  one  of  the speakers.  Identity  verification  in  India  has  become easier since the introduction of a biometric Table 8   Financial Inclusion Policies in Three Southeast Asian CountriesIndonesia    National Strategy for Financial Inclusion Fostering Economic Growth and Accelerating Poverty Reduction    (2012)   Main fintechrelated references       Technology can enable some of the most important bottlenecks to be overcome and increase the supply of financial services.   Philippines    National Strategy for Financial Inclusion    (2015)   Main fintechrelated references      Use of technology and other innovations to reach the financially excluded   Myanmar   Financial Inclusion Roadmap 20142020    (2013)   Main fintechrelated references       Development of electronic payments will require the installation of essential payment clearing and settlement infrastructure. This must remain a priority for the government.      Mobile devices are expected to play a greater role in providing financial services to the people.   Source Compiled by JRI from government releases in each country23RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 national ID system called    Aadhaar   (58). India has also launched the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) a project to ensure that every citizen has a bank account(59). Under this project banks have agreed to provide savings accounts without charging account maintenance fees. By the end of 2017 just over three years since the launch of the project in 2014 300 million new accounts had been created(60). (3)  Creating a Cashless Environment In  addition  to  financial  inclusion  Southeast Asian governments also see fintech as a way to create a cashless environment (specifically the reduction of the percentage of payments made in cash). What are the advantages of cashless payments? The Japanese government which is also working  to  create  a  cashless  environment  has highlighted  the  following  advantages(61).  First business operators spend less time handling cash. Second there are convenience and safety benefits including a reduced need for consumers and foreign tourists to withdraw cash. Third government administration processes involving the receipt of levies or the payment of benefits can be more efficient(62). Many Southeast Asian countries have greater expectations toward these advantages than Japan.  Because  crime  rates  are  higher  than  in Japan the handling or transportation of cash involves greater risks for financial institutions businesses and consumers and the costs are substantial. Furthermore bank branch and ATM networks are less extensive than in Japan with the result that the withdrawal of cash from a bank account is more troublesome. Another problem with cash is the difficulty of tracing flows of money and income. This encourages the formation of an underground economy with adverse effects in such areas as economic monitoring and tax collection. The creation of a cashless environment is also highly significant from the viewpoint of financial inclusion. If money is paid and received in cash individuals will feel little need to have bank accounts with the result that the percentage of peo24ple with bank accounts will remain low. This creates a vicious circle since it becomes impossible to move away from a situation in which all transactions are handled in cash which also hinders progress toward financial inclusion. For this reason the Malaysian government for example is promoting electronic payments as a method that is safe and more costefficient than money transfers based on paper (cash) and as an important tool for improving Malaysia   s economic efficiency and productivity and accelerating economic growth(63). The Thai government similarly believes that electronic payments will bring wideranging benefits to the people businesses and the government (Fig. 12) and is implementing five projects including the aforementioned PromptPay system (Fig. 13). Some recent developments relating to fintech businesses in Southeast Asia are contributing to the creation of a cashless environment. Mobile payments in particular have the potential to encourage the use of cashless payments in both facetoface transactions and ecommerce while also reducing the need for exchanges of cash which occur frequently at present. ConclusionsThis article examined the developments of fintech in Southeast Asia. There are many issues related to finance in Southeast Asia that are viewed by the private sector as business opportunities. This is reflected in the continuing emergence of fintech startups trying to solve these problems. Governments in the region are encouraging these developments. Of course many obstacles remain to be overcome before fintech businesses can become firmly established in Southeast Asia and contribute to the solution of the region   s financial issues. The sustainability of some fintech business models has not yet been tested. For example the effectiveness of credit screening systems based on alternative data during an economic recession can only be proven when a recession actually occurs. There will also be fintech businesses that are viable when still small but struggle to maintain their RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 Fig. 12   Benefits Resulting from Thailand   s National Electronic Payment Master Plan    Lowincome people can receive welfare payments more quickly and accurately.     Lowincome people can be monitored more accurately leading to improvements in the provision of assistance to those that need it.     Payments of social welfare benefits become more transparent.     Tax systems can be more efficient and the work involved in the preparation of tax documents is reduced. Peopleepayments    Basic financial services (deposits withdrawals transfers) can be accesses more conveniently and inclusively and at a lower cost.     Rural residents can make purchases using cards which is safer and more convenient and reduces the need to hold cash.    Cashless payments can be received more efficiently and at a lower cost.      Business becomes easier and customer service is faciltated.     Work on the preparation of tax documents is reduced through a shift to eTax. GovernmentBusinessesSource Bank of Thailand    Payment Systems Report 2015    2016Fig. 13   Five Projects in Thailand   s National EPayment Master Plan      PromptPayPayment system infrastructure 2. Expansion of card usePlastic cards3. eTaxDigitalization of VAT and withholding tax eTax invoices    Five types of registration ID      national ID number     bank  account number     mobile phone number      mobile  wallet ID     email address    Reduction of limitations of existing system expansion of business opportunities in a wide range of areas    Improved convenience for the people businesses and the government    Promoting the use of debt cards instead of cash    Expansion of places were epayments are accepted    Promoting eTax improving the efficiency of  document preparation and submission4. Digitalization of government benefit paymentsTransfers of government welfare benefits and subsidies5. Promotion incentivesPromotion of epayments    Transfer of welfare benefit payments using national IDs    Integration of lowincome earner data base    Use of epayments for public sector receipts and payments    Promotion of epayments by all government agencies through public education    Provision of incentives to use to epayments instead of cash or checks in the public sectorSource Bank of Thailand    Payment Systems Report 2015    2016viability as the scale of activities expands. It will take time to determine whether these businesses are truly sustainable.Moreover whether potential users of these new financial services will become active users is hard to predict. While strong dissatisfaction with the current state of financial services will certainly motivate people to use the new services it is not easy to change longstanding customs and practices. In finance as in any other field new things tend  to  be  viewed  with  unease  and  suspicion. There is also deeprooted anxiety about the security of online payment systems. To overcome these barriers service providers will need to earn the trust of users. This will require efforts by both the private sector and governments including (1) the creation of mechanisms that allow potential users to try out new systems and assess their usability (2) the establishment of both voluntary rules and laws / regulations as well as security measures to ensure customer protection and the soundness of transactions and (3) educational activities to en25RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 able customers to use these new services effectively. Only when confidence has been built through initiatives such as these will fintech businesses be able to earn the trust of society and contribute to the solution of financial issues in Southeast Asia. End Notes1. 2. Techsauce Ruamkid Southeast Asia   s Top 75 Fintech Companies Report 2017 February 9 2017 (https//www.slideshare.net/techsauce/southeastasiastop75fintechstartupsreport)The term    mobile payment    refers to payment systems that utilize mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Mobile payment methods include online payment in which users employ mobile devices to make online payments on the Internet mobile wallet systems where mobile devices are used to make facetoface payments in brickandmortar stores the use of mobile devices as POS terminals in brickandmortar stores and mobile POS payments using mobile POS payment systems that can accept card payments. Interfaces used by mobile wallet systems at the time of payment include QR codes NFC Bluetooth and apps. Money can be added to mobile wallets from a variety of sources including credit cards bank deposits and prepaid electronic money.3.  CB  Insights  The  CB  Insights  Fintech  250  2017 (https//storage.googleapis.com/instapageusermedia/11443291/193262010UpdatedEbook710.pdf)4.  Because CB Insights uses a different classification system this figure represents the total number of companies providing wallet money transfers and processing payment infrastructure.26RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 5. This trend is especially pronounced in Japan where the majority of citizens can open bank accounts and acquire credit cards without any serious difficulties. Basic banking services are readily available in part because of the proliferation of ATMs in convenience stores and people are able to set aside deposits and obtain insurance to provide for unforeseen contingencies. Loan products are also available for various purposes. The circumstances of the companies are similar and the financial institutions that provide financial services generally operate efficiently reflecting their involvement in these activities for many years.6. Fuji Sankei Business i Indonesia   s Parliament Speaker Arrested December 5 2017. Resident Identity Cards (eKTPs) are now being digitized to combat fraud.7.  World Bank website (http//www.worldbank.org/en/topic/financialinclusion/overview)12.  With cashondelivery customers can avoid paying for goods that fail to arrive or are defective since they only need to pay after receiving their orders. However this method entails cash handling costs for ecommerce businesses. There are significant disadvantages with cashondelivery in Southeast Asia including (1) the return of goods after customers refuse to receive them because they have changed their minds and (2) the theft of cash received from customers by delivery personnel.13. In his National Day Rally speech in August 2017 Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong stated Singapore was lagging behind other cities in the area of electronic payments and contrasted that with the spread of systems like WeChat Pay and AliPay in China. (Prime Minister   s Office Singapore National Rally 2017 August 20  2017 http//www.pmo.gov.sg/nationaldayrally2017). The use of checks in Singapore is also high by world standards and the reduction of payments made in cash or by check has become a priority.8. Singapore Malaysia Thailand Indonesia Vietnam Philippines Laos Myanmar and Cambodia.14.  Member countries of the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures of the Bank for International Settlements.9. International Financial Corporation Enterprise Finance Gap Database (2011 data).15.  At 19.96% the Japanese figure is the highest among the countries surveyed.10.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas National Baseline Survey on Financial Inclusion 2015.11.  NetHope The Case for Branchless Banking in Thousand  Islands Indonesia January 30 2014 (http//solutionscenter.nethope.org/blog/view/thecaseforbranchlessbankinginthousandislandsindonesia).16.  With this payment method payment is completed by scanning a QR code with a smartphone. Shops can store QR codes on smartphones or similar devices or print them on cardboads and allow customers to scan them using a smartphone app. Alternatively customers can install an app on their own smartphones to display a QR code identifying their bank accounts. The shop can then use a smartphone or dedicated device to scan this QR code.27RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 17.  We are Social Singapore Digital in 2017 Global Overview 2017 (https//wearesocial.com/sg/). Figures released in January 2017.24.  Vinasun  MoMo  partner  on  smart  payments Viet Nam News November 17 2017 (http//vietnamnews.vn/bizhub/417696/vinasunmomopartneronsmartpayments.html#k7KJEDzukU3iMyC1.97)18.  World Bank  Global  Financial Inclusion Database 2014. Averages for nine key countries.25.  Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard19.  References include the MoMo website (https//momo.26.  Secure Socket Layer   A protocol used to encrypt data vn/). transmitted over the Internet. 20.  M_Service initially modeled its service on the GCash service provided by Globe Telecom in the Philippines from 2004. It began to provide mobile payment services based on the SIM card system under a partnership with VinaPhone a major mobile telecoms carrier. However this limited the customer base to VinaPhone subscribers and involved troublesome processes for customers such as updating. For these reasons the company began to use its own mobile payment app in 2014. (Follow the Leader in Vietnam Inc. South Asia August 3 2017 http//incasean.com/editorpicks/followleadervietnam/).21.  How a fintech outgrew banks in the mobile wallet market in Vietnam The Asian Banker May 11 2017 (http//www.theasianbanker.com/updatesandarticles/howafintechoutgrewbanksinthemobilewalletmarketinvietnam).22. International Finance Corporation E and MCommerce and Payment Sector Development in Vietnam 2014 p.1423.  Vietnam Post is currently digitizing its financial services in an effort to overcome these issues.27.  Association of Banks in Singapore PayNow website (https//abs.org.sg/consumerbanking/paynow)28.  Other options include bank deposit account numbers mobile wallet IDs and email addresses.29.  Transfer charges are 2 baht (about   7) for amounts over 5000 baht (about   17000) and up to 30000 baht (about   100000) 5 baht (about   17) for amounts over 30000 baht and up to 100000 baht (about   340000) and 10 baht (about   34) for amounts over 100000 baht. 30.  Monetary Authority of Singapore Payments Council sets up taskforce to develop common QR code for Singapore (news release) August 29 201731.  Singapore Thailand  weigh  epayment  alliance  in digital push Bloomberg October 5 2017 (https//www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/20171004/singaporethailanddiscussepaymentalliancefordigitalpush)28RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 32.  Singapore FinTech Journey 2.0   Remarks by Mr. Ravi Menon Managing Director Monetary Authority of Singapore at Singapore FinTech Festival on 14 November 2017 Monetary Authority of Singapore press release November 14 201739.  Ewallet services aim to make money in future Vietnamnet January 26 2017 (http//english. vietnamnet.vn/fms/scienceit/171362/ewalletservicesaimtomakemoneyinfuture.html)33.  According to a World Bank survey the average money transfer commissions in AprilJune 2017 were 11.00% for banks 6.56% for post offices 6.14% for specialist money transfer companies and 3.10% for telecommunications carriers. (World Bank Remittance Prices Worldwide Issue 23 September 2017)34.  References include the Toast website (https//toastme.com/sg).35.  Toast lands $1.5M for crossborder payment services for migrant workers in Asia TechCrunch November 10 2016 (https//techcrunch.com/2016/11/10/toastfundingcrossborderremittancepayments/)36.  Toast  to  become  fully  financial  service  platform for migrant workers e27 November 7 2016 (https//e27.co/beyondremittancestoastwantstobecomefullscalefinancialservicesplatformformigrantworkers20161109/)37.  As above38.  References include the Lenddo website (https//www.lenddo.com/).40.  We are banking on our digital wallet GoPay for the foreseeable future   GoJek CTO Ajey Gore inc42 July 11 2017 (https//inc42.com/indonesia/gojekgopaydigitalwalletindonesia/)41.  This is based on the results of a survey conducted in December 2016 by the research firm JakPat. GoJek   s    GoPay    system is being used by 27.1% of emoney users. Bank Mandiri   s    eMoney    was ranked first at 43.8% followed by Bank Central Asia   s    Flazz    at 39.1% and PT Telcomsel   s    TCash    at 29.1%. (   Indonesian ridehailing unicorn GoJek accelerates digital payments    eMarketer January 17 2017 https//www.emarketer.com/Article/IndonesianRideHailingUnicornGoJekAcceleratesDigitalPayments/1015048)42.  The companies are Kartuku which processes facetoface payments Midtrans which operates an online payment gateway and Mapan which operates a savings and loan network for people who do not have bank accounts.43.  GoJek acquires three leading fintech business cementing  its  leadership  in  Indonesia   s  fastgrowing  payments market GoJek press release December 15 2017  (https//www.gojek.com/blog/gojekacquiresthreeleadingfintechbusinessescementingitsleadershipinindonesiasfastgrowingpaymentsmarket/)44.  Chief Executive Officer & Founder Nadiem Makarim made these comments at the Singapore FinTech Festival on November 14 2017.29RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 50.  Grab  solidifies  leadership  in  digital  payments  with agreement to acquire Kudo Indonesia   s leading O2O Ecommerce platform Grab press release April 3 2017 (https//www.grab.com/id/en/press/business/grabkukuhkankeunggulandibidangpembayarannontunailewatkesepakatanuntukmengakuisisikudoplatformecommerceonlineuntukofflineo2oterkemukadiindonesia/)51.  Grab is also supporting efforts to achieve the Indonesian government   s goal of making Indonesia the biggest digital economy in Southeast Asia by 2020. It will invest US$700 million under the    Grab 4 Indonesia 2020    plan which it announced in February 2017. The three main areas of investment will be     human resources for technology     technopreneurship (technologyrelated entrepreneurship) and     mobile payments. Grab Grab to invest US$700 million in    Grab 4 Indonesia    2020 master plan (press release) February 2 2017 (https//www.grab.com/sg/press/business/grabinvestusd700milliongrab4indonesia2020masterplan/) 52.  These are deregulated environments in which regulations are eased within a limited scope for a fixed period giving companies the freedom to try out new business ideas just as children can play freely in sandboxes.45. Indonesia   s ridehailing startup GoJek wants to aggressively expand its payments services CNBC September 14 2017 (https//www.cnbc.com/2017/09/14/indonesiasgojekcompeteswithgrabandubernowitwantstobelikealipayandwechatpay.html)46.  Grab moving into epayment market The New Paper August 31 2017  (http//www.tnp.sg/news/singapore/grabmovingepaymentmarket)47.  Grab  Grab  delivers  a  cashless  and  seamless  ride experience to everyone with GrabPay Credits (press release) November 29 2016 (https//www.grab.com/sg/press/techproduct/grabdeliverscashlessseamlessrideexperienceeveryonegrabpaycredits/)48.  Grab Grab launches GrabPay ewallet in hawker stalls restaurants and shops in Singapore (press release) November 2 201749.  Kudo provides services under the following scheme.      Individuals or retail store owners sign agency contracts with Kudo.      Customers go to an agent and look at products on the Kudo platform on a mobile phone provided by the agent. The products available are offered by companies with which Kudo has established partnerships such as the ecommerce marketplaces Lazada and BukaLapak.      If the customer wants to buy a product he or she pays cash to the agent. The product is then delivered to the customer   s home.      The agent receives a commission from Kudo according to the sale price of the product.      In addition to ecommerce the system can also be used to pay utility charges and buy mobile phone credit.30RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 53.  MAS Managing Director Ravi Menon has identified three requirements for fintech regulation. First regulation must not frontrun innovation. Regulators need to watch the situation constantly and decide whether regulation is needed or whether things should be left to evolve further. Second regulation should be applied when risks emerge or exceed a certain level but the weight of the regulation must be proportionate to the risk. Third regulation must both mitigate risks and prevent the emergence of new risks. (Monetary Authority of Singapore Singapore   s FinTech Journey     Where We Are What is Next Speech by Mr. Ravi Menon Managing Director Monetary Authority of Singapore at Singapore FinTech Festival    Fintech conference on 16 November 2016)56.  VN financial inclusion focuses on tech Viet Nam News May 20 201757.  Launched in 2007 the MPesa service is provided by the mobile phone company Safaricom. Its use has expanded rapidly among lowincome people who have no bank accounts. MPesa has also been a starting point for the increasing use of mobile banking including deposits and loans. The percentage of the adult population with no access to financial services has plummeted from 41.3% in 2006 to 17.4% in 2016. (Njuguna Ndungu Digitalization in Kenya edited by Sanjeev Gupta et al. Digital Revolution in Public Finance International Monetary Fund 2017 54.  According to the World Bank Financial inclusion means that individuals and businesses have access to useful and affordable financial products and services that meet their needs   transactions payments savings credit and insurance   delivered in a responsible and sustainable way. World Bank website http//www.worldbank.org/en/topic/financialinclusion/overviewIn  societies  where  financial  inclusion  has  not  been achieved individuals lack suitable means to build assets in the form of deposits. Because they are unable to access financial products at reasonable prices they are forced to compromise by borrowing money from informal sources at high interest rates or by paying excessive money transfer commissions. They lack deposits and insurance to provide a buffer for unforeseen events such as illness injury or unemployment. SMEs microbusinesses and selfemployed people face similar disadvantages. These situations make it difficult to escape from poverty and hinder economic growth and the achievement of prosperity by society as a whole.55.  Comment by Korn Chatikavanij Chairman Thai Fintech Association at the Singapore FinTech Festival on November 16 201758.     Aadhaar    is a Hindi word meaning    foundation.    59.  This means    Prime Minister   s People Money Scheme    in English.60.  Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana website (https//pmjdy.gov.in/)61.  The government aims to increase Japan   s cashless payment ratio from the current level of around 20% to about 40% over the next 10 years (by June 2027) and is implementing a variety of initiatives to achieve this. (Headquarters for Japan   s Economic Revitalization Future Investment Strategy 2017 June 9 2017 P.60)31RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 62.  These items were highlighted as advantages of cashless payments in policies formulated by related government agencies for the realization of a cashless society. (Cabinet Secretariat Financial Services Agency Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry Ministry of Land Infrastructure Transport and Tourism other government agencies Kyasshuresuka ni muketa hosaku [Policies toward the Realization of Cashless Society] December 26 2014 P.1)63.  Bank  Negara  Malaysia  Financial  Sector  Blueprint 20112020 2011 p.141References(Japanese)1. Iwasaki K. [2016] The Rising of Japanese startups in Southeast Asia in Japan Research Institute RIM 2016 Vol.16 No.622. 3. Iwasaki K. [2017] Tonan ajia ni okeru Nihon kigyo to sutatoappu no renkei no kanosei [The potential for collaboration between Japanese companies and startups in Southeast Asia] in Japan Research Institute JRI Review 2017 Vol.8 No.47Fujita. T. [2017] Indo no dejitaruka seisaku to fintekku hatten no kanosei [India   s digitalization policy and the potential for fintech development] in Japan Research Institute RIM 2017 Vol.17 No.67(English)4.  Asian Development Bank and Oliver Wyman [2017]    Accelerating Financial Inclusion in SouthEast Asia with Digital Finance    5.  McKinsey & Company [2017]    The Phoenix Rises Remaking the Bank for an Ecosystem World   McKinsey Global Banking Annual Review 2017    October 2017 6.  World Bank  [2014]    Opportunities of Digitizing Payments    (prepared for the G20 Australian Presidency) August 28 201432RIM   Pacific Business and Industries Vol. XVIII 2018 No. 68 DisclaimerThis report is intended sorely for informational purposes and should not be interpreted as an inducement to trade in any way.All information in this report is provided    as is    with no guarantee of completeness accuracy timeliness or of the results obtained from the use of this information and without warranty of any kind express or implied including but not limited to warranties of performance merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event will JRI its officers or employees be liable to you or anyone else for any decision made or action taken in reliance on the information in this report or for any damages even if we are advised of the possibility of such damages. JRI reserves the right to suspend operation of or change the contents of the report at any time without prior notification. JRI is not obliged to alter or update the information in the report including without limitation any projection or other forward looking statement contained therein.  '