b'herein fileSPECIALTY GRAND CHALLENGEpublished 27 November 2018doi 10.3389/frai.2018.00001Fintech Risk Management AResearch Challenge for Arti   cialIntelligence in FinancePaolo Giudici*Department of Economics and Management University of Pavia Pavia ItalyKeywords regulatory technology supervisory technology blockchain big data analytics arti   cial intelligencepeerto peer lending (p2p lending) roboadvisory cryptoassetsOVERVIEWThe Financial Stability Board (2017b) de   nes FINancial TECHnology as    technologicallyenabled    nancial innovations that could result in new business models applications processesor products with an associated material e   ect on    nancial markets and institutions and on theprovision of    nancial services.   While innovation in    nance is not a new concept the focus on technological innovations andits pace have increased signi   cantly. Fintech solutions that make use of big data analytics arti   cialintelligence and blockchain technologies are currently introduced at an unprecedented rate. Thesenew technologies are changing the nature of the    nancial industry creating many opportunitiesthat o   er a more inclusive access to    nancial services. The advantages notwithstanding FinTechsolutions leave the door open to many risks that may hamper consumer protection and    nancialstability. Relevant examples of such risks are underestimation of creditworthiness market riskuncompliance fraud detection and cyberattacks. Indeed    ntech risk management represent acentral point of interest for regulatory authorities and require research and development of novelmeasurements.Across the world there is a strong need to improve the competitiveness of the    ntech sectorintroducing a risk management framework that can supervise    ntech innovations without sti   ingtheir economic potential. A framework that can help both    ntechs and supervisors on onehand    ntech    rms need advice on how to identify opportunities for innovation procurementsfor example in advanced regulatory technology (RegTech) solutions; on the other hand thesupervisory bodies    ability to monitor innovative    nancial products proposed by    ntechs islimited and advanced supervisory technology (SupTech) solutions are required. A crucial stepin transforming compliance and supervision is to develop uniform and technologydriven riskmanagement tools which could reduce the barriers between    ntechs and supervisors.We believe that a focused international research activity coordinated at the level of a highlyreputed open access scienti   c journal with multiple key foci such as Frontiers in Arti   cialIntelligence can help to close the gap between technical and regulatory expertise in particularproviding risk management procedures common to both sides. It could lead to the development ofa regulatory framework that encourages innovations in big data analytics arti   cial intelligence andblockchain technologies which at the same time satis   es supervisory concerns to apply regulationsin an e   ective and e   cient way and which protect consumers and investors.Regulations and related supervisory requirements are placing great focus on risk managementpractices which in turn drives the need for deep transparent and auditable data analyses acrossorganizations. Technologies such as big data analytics arti   cial intelligence and blockchainledgers may address risk management requirements and the associated costs more e   ciently.In particularthese technologies can (i) reduce credit scoring bias and improve fraudEdited and reviewed byRosario Nunzio MantegnaUniversit   degli Studi di Palermo Italy*CorrespondencePaolo Giudicipaolo.giudici@unipv.itReceived 25 September 2018Accepted 05 November 2018Published 27 November 2018CitationGiudici P (2018) Fintech RiskManagement A Research Challengefor Arti   cial Intelligence in Finance.Front. Artif. Intell. 11.doi 10.3389/frai.2018.00001Frontiers in Arti   cial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org1November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1 GiudiciFintech Risk Managementdetection in peertopeer lending; (ii) measure and monitorsystemic risk in peertopeer lending; (iii) measure and monitormarket risk and volatility in    nancial markets (iv) enhanceclient risk pro   le matching in roboadvisory; (v) identify illegalactivities in crypto markets including fraudulent initial coino   erings and money laundering; (vi) identify and prioritize IToperational risks and cyber risks.In line with these developmentsthe specialty section   Arti   cial Intelligence in Finance    of Frontiers in Arti   cialIntelligence aims to create an international research forumthat provides and publishes key research on shared riskmanagement solutions that automatize compliance of    ntechcompanies (RegTech) and at the same timeincreases thee   ciency of supervisory activities (SupTech). The Arti   cialIntelligence in Finance section also builds synergies withthe broadertechfocused specializations with its ownjournal and within Frontiers in Big Data and Frontiers inBlockchain.Currently supervisors and    ntechs do not have a commonframework to understand the opportunities/risks balanceleading to di   erent perceptions. Arti   cial Intelligence inFinance aims to provide a research forum to discuss solutionsthat e   ciently automatize both    ntech compliance (RegTech)and supervisory monitoring (SupTech).The vision of Arti   cial Intelligence in Finance is tobuild a collaborative innovative environmentfrom whichboth supervisory bodies and regulated institutions can bene   t.Speci   cally we aim at connecting the two sides of the coin byorganizing a forum for research discussion which will have thepurpose of sharing risk measurement solutions that    t the needsof both regulated institutions and regulators. The discussionwill draw on the contribution from three types of projectparticipantsi Fintech and    nancial companies who have a detailedunderstanding of business models based on    nancialtechnologies;andii Regulatorsdetailedunderstanding of the regulations and risks that concern   nancial technologies;supervisors whohaveaiii Universities and research centers which have a detailedunderstanding of the risk management models that can beapplied to    nancial technologies.the research content ofthe journal will beConceptuallyclassi   ed around three types of FinTech risk managementmodels which will constitute the conceptual map of the journalThe classi   cation is based on the three main technologies thatdrive FinTech innovationsi Big data analytics with its application to peertopeerlending with main risks arising from credit risk and systemicrisk;ii Arti   cial intelligence with its application to    nancial roboadvice with main risks arising from market risk andcompliance risk;iii Blockchain with main application to cryptoassets with mainrisks arising from fraud detection money laundering risk IToperational risk and cyber risks.Arti   cial Intelligence in Finance will consider research from allthe above three areas. Research in Big data and Blockchainbut also in AI more generally neatly connects to otherFrontiers    journals such as Frontiers in Big Data and Frontiersin Blockchain. This interdisciplinary infrastructure aims toleverage collaborations and the expertise of diverse researchcommunities   something thatthe center of FinTechinnovation.is atInnovative TechnologiesThe European Commission (2018) argues that the term big datarefers to    large amounts of di   erent types of data produced withhigh velocity from a high number of various types of sources.    Bigdata analytics refers to the variety of technologies models andprocedures that involve the analysis of big data aimed revealinginsights patterns of causality and of correlation and to predictfuture events (similarly to data science and to its predecessor datamining see e.g. Giudici 2003).Over the years academics and experts in computer scienceand statistics have developed advanced techniques to obtaininsights from large datasets combining a variety of data typesobtained from a variety of sources (see Brito 2014). Thesemodels are able to utilize the ability of computers to performcomplicated tasks by learning from experience. Following ade   nition o   ered by the Financial Stability Board (2017a)arti   cial intelligence is a broad term capturing    the applicationof computational tools to address tasks traditionally requiringhuman sophistication.    It is important to mention that oftenthe terms AI and machine learning are used interchangeably.However Arti   cial Intelligence is a broader term of whichmachine learning represents a subcategory the di   erence beingthat machine learning is a datadriven way to achieve AI butnot the only one; similarly big data analytics is broader thenmachine learning as it includes also statistical learning. For afurther discussion on the di   erence between AI and MachineLearning see also Kersting (2018).Among the emerging technologies with signi   cant potentialto change the    nancial systems and industry from its corethe blockchain has received a signi   cant amount of attentionover the last few years. A blockchain is a distributed databaseof records of all transactions or digital events that have beenexecuted and shared among participating parties (De Filippiand Hassan 2016). Each transaction in the distributed databaseof records is veri   ed by the participants through a majorityconsensus and once con   rmed the transaction can never bealtered or deleted (see for e.g. Tasca and Hayes 2016). Hence theblockchain contains a certain and veri   able record of every singletransaction ever made between the participants in a network (seee.g. Pontiveros et al. 2018).Financial ApplicationsMany    ntech applications rely on big data analytics andin particularthose based on peertopeer (P2P)    nancialtransactions such as peer to peer lending crowdfundingand invoice trading. The concept peertopeer captures theinteraction between units which eliminates the need fora centralIn particular peertopeer lendingenacts disintermediation by allowing borrowers and lenders tointermediary.Frontiers in Arti   cial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org2November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1 GiudiciFintech Risk Managementcommunicate directly using the platform as an informationprovider which among other things assesses the credit riskof borrowers. From a regulatory perspective a key point ofinterest is whether such credit risk measurements re   ect theactual capacity of borrowers to repay their debt. Regulation mustbe technologically neutral and therefore credit risk complianceshould be imposed on    ntechs as they are for banks. At the sametime it cannot be so burdensome to disincentivise the growth ofalternative    nancial service provides (see Talonen et al. 2016).Automated consultants known asrobot advisors areconsidered the main application of AI in    nancial services.The European Supervisory Authorities joint report de   nes thephenomenon of automation in    nancial advice as    a procedure inwhich advice is provided to consumers without or with very littlehuman intervention and with providers relying on computerbasedalgorithm and/or decision trees.    In practice robot advisors buildpersonalized portfolios for investors on the basis of algorithmsthat take into account investors    information such as age risktolerance and aversion net income family status. Obtaining thisinformation is a legal requirement and robot advisors employonline questionnaires to obtain it.Crypto assets are the main application of blockchaintechnology and are considered one of the largest markets inthe world which remain unregulated. Within the last decadedigital currencies operating independently of central banks havemassively grown in popularity price and volatility. The Bitcoinis the oldest most popular and widely used digital currency andit o   ers lowcost decentralized transfer of value anywhere inthe world with the only constraint representing the availabilityof an internet connection. However many other crypto assetsare available and new ones are continuously emerging throughInitial Coin O   erings in which a company sells digital tokensthat eventually can be exchanged for goods services or othercurrencies. It is a new fundraising method which combineselements of both crowdfunding and traditional initial publico   erings.Risk Concerns and ManagementAlthough there are many existing legislations that are intended toserve in the interest of consumer and investor protection lending   ntechs give rise to    disintermediation    which requires the needfor further protection of consumers and investors. In the caseof peer to peer lending there are two main causes of concern.First P2P platforms have less information on their borrowerscompared to classical banks and are less able to deal withasymmetric information. Second in most P2P lending platformsthe credit risk is not held by the platform but rather by theinvestors. Both causes lead to a high likelihood that the scoringsystem of P2P lenders may not adequately re   ect the    correct   probability of default of a loan. A further issue associatedwith the nature of P2P platforms is that they give rise byconstruction to globally interconnected networks of transactions.they cannot avoid the measurementThisthatofarisingfrom contagion mechanismsrisksbetween borrowers.systemicsuggestsIn the context of P2P lending a key risk to measure is the riskassociated with the default of borrowers credit risk. Statisticaltheory o   ers a great variety of supervised models for creditscoring and credit risk management and in particular logisticregression and generalized linear models (Bern   et al. 2006). Thesame models can be applied to similar classi   cation problemsin peertopeer lending such as consumer   s fraud and moneylaundering detection.A key issue that arises in employing generalized linearmodels for P2P classi   cation problems is that the event to bepredicted is multivariate. To solve this issue Lauritzen (1996)introduced graphical models to model dependencies betweenrandom variables by means of a unifying and powerful conceptof a mapping between probabilistic conditional independencesmissing edges in a graphical representation and suitablestatistical model parametrisations. In parallel Mantegna (1999)introduced hierarchical structures in    nancial markets basedon correlation matrices developing a powerful distancebasedstatistical model able to uncover similarity relationships among   nancial assets. These models have been applied in a varietyof    nancial contexts including credit scoring churn modelingand fraud detection (for a review see Giudici 2003; Guegan andHassani 2017).In line with these developments Giudici and HadjiMisheva(2018) suggest to model credit risk of peer to peer lendingtaking advantage of their natural interconnectedness by meansof correlation network models a subset of graphical modelsthat has been introduced in    nance to measure systemic risksrisk (see e.g. Arakelian and Dellaportas 2012; Battiston et al.2012; Billio et al. 2012; Diebold and Yilmaz 2014; V  rost et al.2015). This allows to improve the accuracy of credit risk modelsand furthermore to measure a risk type that is particularlyevident in P2P lending systemic risk recently applied to bankand sovereign default. Giudici and HadjiMisheva (2018) showhow to build a correlation network for P2P lending associatingeach borrower with a statistical unit at each time point manyvariables can be observed for that unit; in the case of SMElending balance sheet variables; in the case of consumer credittransaction account variables. A correlation network (Mantegna1999) between borrowers can then be built on the basis ofthe observed values of one variable over time. Associating eachborrower with a node in the network each pair of nodes canbe thought to be connected by an edge whose weight is equalto the correlation coe   cient between the twotime series of thechosen variable each corresponding to a speci   c borrower. If weconsider all pairs of borrowers we will get a matrix of correlationweights also known as    adjacency matrix.    Once the adjacencymatrix is derived summary network centrality measures suggestwhich are the most important units in the network orin   nancial risk terms which are the most contagious borrowers(Giudici and Spelta 2016; Toma  ev et al. 2016). FurthermoreGiudici and HadjiMisheva (2018) show in real P2P lending dataanalysis that when network centrality measures are embeddedin a generalized linear model speci   cation they can improve thepredictive accuracy of credit scoring algorithms.Moving to asset management    ntechs note thattheadvantages associated with automatized advice may be o   set bythe greater risks that are brought on board among which therisks of making unsuitable decision (due to lack of informationFrontiers in Arti   cial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org3November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1 GiudiciFintech Risk Managementor reduced opportunities) and risks of errors and functionallimitations of the tool. As is the case with big data analyticsthere are several regulatory requirements that already exist andapply to automated advice. However some risks are yet to befully considered and measured. Among them we believe thefollowing are the most relevant (i) compliance risk   mismatchbetween expected and actual investment risk class; (ii) marketrisk   the likelihood that adverse movements and volatility in   nancial markets either traditional or new (crypto markets)cause unexpected losses in investors    portfolios.As for peer to peer lending the increased risks connectedwith the use of robot advisory platforms can be mitigated by anappropriate analysis of the data they generate. In this respectrobot advisors generate in an automated way a large amountof data which can be leveraged not only to improve the servicemaking it more personalized but also to reduce compliancerisk and in particular the risk of an incorrect pro   le matchingbetween    expected    and    actual    risk classes (see e.g. Valkanov2016).Recent studies have shown that an accurate analysis of riskpropensity questionnaires can allow roboadvisors to estimatethe    expected    risk class of each investor. Data analysisalgorithms can be implemented also on the supply sideconsidering the returns of the available    nancial products toclassify them into homogeneous    actual    risk classes. Linkingtogether the    expected    risk classi   cation of an investor withits    actual    classi   cation allows to evaluate whether a robotadvisor respects its risk pro   le (Kaba  inskas et al. 2017) oneof the most important requirement of the MIFID regulationwhich thus becomes in the context of robot advisory a veri   ablerequirement not only from a formal viewpoint but also from anoperational one.The literature on the measurement of expected risks inrobot advisory is very limited. Scherer (2016) investigateswithin a machine learning approach based on tree models thekey investor characteristics that can predict    nancial marketparticipation; Alexy et al. (2016) is a related work. Similarlythe literature on the measurement of the actual risk of a givenset of    nancial products is also very limited. Tumminello et al.(2005) and Tola et al. (2008) who employ clustering modelsto construct homogeneous asset classes and (Baitinger andPapenbrock 2017) who considered interconnectedness risk arenoticeable exceptions.Giudici and Polinesi(2018) extend Scherer   s approachderiving expected risk classes from the responses to the MIFIDquestionnaire building correspondence analysis models onthe observed contingency table that results from the crossclassi   cation of the responses to the questionnaire. They alsoshow how to employ feed forward neural network models toestimate the risk class of a given investor   s portfolio on the basisof the observed returns. By comparing the expected with theactual risk class for a sample of investors it is thus possibleto evaluate in an automated way whether the robot advisor iscompliant with the risk pro   le of the investor.We remark that speci   c concerns arise from a market riskviewpoint when crypto assets are combined with classical onesin investment activities. In particular bitcoins and crytpoassetshave been associated with exceptionally high volatility and greatlysensitive prices (see Jab  ecki et al. 2015; Traian et al. 2017;  ikovi  c Sa  a 2017; Chen et al. 2018). Indeed    uctuations arevery common throughout the existence of the crypto assetswhich in turn raises the question whether this behavior isattributed to general market conditions or to idiosyncraticfactors (as discussed by Makrichoriti and Moratis 2016). Toaddress these concerns network models take the central stageas could be expected. Nakamoto (2009) described the bitcoinas a purely peertopeer version of electronic cash that allowsonline payments to be send directly from one party to anotherwithout going through a    nancialin itsessence the bitcoin represents a solution to the doublespendingproblem using a peertopeer network. This suggests that acorrect measure of the risks associated with this technology musttake into account the interconnections generated by networktransactions.institution. HenceIn this context correlation network models can be employedto detect the main determinants of volatility (as in Papenbrockand Schwendner 2015; Barucci and Marazzina 2016). Morerecently(Giudici and AbuHashish 2018) have appliedcorrelation VAR models to check whether price contagionbetween di   erent bitcoin exchange markets exist and found thatthis is the case especially for smaller exchanges.Many innovative    ntechs have payment deals with theapplication of blockchain technology. The main risk concernsabout blockchain applications in    nance relate to operationalrisks. Many international regulatory authorities have raisedsigni   cant concerns suggesting thatin most cases smallinvestors do not adequately understand the risk involved withInitial Coin O   erings. Although many legitimate startups useICOs for the purpose of raising money many projects also existwhich do not intend to deliver any value to the investors. Themarket has seen many such cases of fraudulent ICOs whichraises deep concerns for investor protection and overall    nancialstability. To identify the main determinants of fraudulent ICOstext mining analytics methods that use network models toreduce their curse of dimensionality can be applied. Followingmost recent statistics 99% of all ICOs use Telegram as achannel for interacting with their communities. Typically theTelegram groups are characterized by many members anddetailed discussions about the value of the individual projects aswell as by the expectations of the communities concerning thesuccess of the ICO and the company. By collecting data from theTelegram ICOs (including the corresponding white papers) anddiscussions on Telegram chats relating the value and prospects ofthe projects in question we can build train and test supervisedmodels to discriminate and classify ICOs by their probabilityof fraud using for example the methods shown in Hochreiter(2015).Another cause of concern is that crypto assets allow for amultibillion dollar global market of anonymous transactionswhich does not undergo any control. Hence its emergence andgrowth can create considerable challenges for market integrityparticularly from money laundering activities. Money launderingembraces all those operations to disguise the illicit origin ofcapital to give it a semblance of legitimacy and facilitateFrontiers in Arti   cial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org4November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1 GiudiciFintech Risk Managementthe subsequent reinvestment in the lawful economy. A recentstudy conducted by Foley et al. (2018) aims at quantifyingand characterizing the illegal trade facilitated by the Bitcointo provide a better understanding of the nature and scale ofthe problem facing this technology. The results from the studysuggest that approximately onequarter of Bitcoin users and onehalf of Bitcoin transactions are associated with illegal activity.The authors found that around $72 billion of illegal activityper year involves Bitcoin which is close to the scale of theUS and European markets for illegal drugs. In the contextof money laundering detection networkbased communitydetection models can be employed. They exploit the transactionalnetwork topology for the purpose of identifying communitiesof users and in particular to identify communities of moneylaunderers using the transactions between them. More formallythe method that can be applied is a network cluster analysisalgorithm that takes as inputs the set of users (   nodes    in networkterminology) and the trades between users (   edges    or    links   in network terminology) (Foley et al. 2018). The output of thealgorithm is an assignment of users to communities such thatthe    modularity    of the communities (density of links withincommunities and sparsity of links between communities) ismaximized (Foley et al. 2018).An additional cause of concern is that cryptoassets are fullydigital and therefore may lead to higher IT operational riskssuch as errors in the functioning of the algorithms and hackingand manipulation of the algorithms (cyber attacks) to nameonly a few. While the literature on the quantitative measurementof operational risk constitute a reasonably large body (see forexample Cruz 2002) that on cyber risk measurement is verylimited. As cyber risks are very di   erent in nature rare andtypically not repeatable a useful approach to measure themis to consider an ordinalbased scorecard approach similar tothat done in selfassessmentbased operational risk management(see e.g. Giudici 2015) in reputation measurement (see e.g.Cerchiello and Giudici 2015) or in portfolio analysis usingstochastic dominance (Post and Pot   2016).In this way a cyber risk measure can be used to rank cyber risksand prioritize interventions preventing failures and reducing exante the impact of risks. This on the basis of ordinal randomvariables that represent the levels of frequency and severity fordi   erent cyber risk events in di   erent business areas. A similarapproach can be consistently undertaken to measure operationalrisks deriving from the use of roboadvisors caused by theirmalfunctioning rather than by cyberattacks. Note also that anordinalbased measurement of operational risks and cyber risksREFERENCESAlexy M. Georgantzis N. K    cer M. and P  liov   J. (2016). Risk attitudeelicitation methods do they tell similar stories? Ekonomick   Casopis 64847   877.Arakelian V. and Dellaportas P.(2012) Contagion determination viacopula and volatility threshold models. Quant. Finance 12 295   310.doi 10.1080/14697680903410023Baitinger E. and Papenbrock J. (2017). Interconnectedness risk and activeInvest. Strate. 6 63   90. doi 10.2139/ssrn.J.portfolio management.290983can be easily adapted to scenario testing which is one of the bestways for the    nancial industry to protect from them speci   callywhen they are conducted across the industry.CONCLUSIONSIn this paper we have focused on the emerging topic of    nancialtechnology. We have    rst identi   ed the main technologicaldrivers of change big data analytics arti   cial intelligence andblockchain technology; and their main    nancial applicationsin banking (peer to peer lending); in asset management (robotadvisory); and in payment systems (crypto assets).Our vision is to encourage the development and the growthof    nancial technologies making them sustainable minimizingtheir possible negative impacts on consumers and investors. Thisgoal can be achieved through the development of appropriate riskmanagement methods whose compliance burden can be limitedby the technology itself.To achieve this aim the paper has presented the main riskconcerns that arise with the development of the most important   nancial technologies and has suggested research directions inrisk measurement models appropriate to manage and mitigatethe involved risks.A strict collaboration and open discussion between academics   ntech experts and regulators can help move us ahead inthis direction developing    ntech risk management models thatwhile limiting the negative impact of disrupting technologiesencourage their development. The journal Frontiers in Arti   cialIntelligence with the research specialty Arti   cial Intelligence inFinance will be key in fostering collaborations and stimulatingresearch debates on risk management practices. The goal is toshare with the community the best practices to measure    ntechrisks. Practices that could be employed to o   er    automated    riskmanagement tools for both RegTech and SupTech purposesthus making    ntech innovations competitive and sustainable.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSThe author con   rms being the sole contributor of this work andhas approved it for publication.FUNDINGThis work is taken from the proposal to the EC Horizon 2020Funding Call Grant ICT352018 (Grant number 825215 FINTECH) which was approved on August 9 2018.Barucci E. and Marazzina D. (2016) Asset management high water mark and   ow of funds. Operat. Res. Lett. 44 607   611. doi 10.1016/j.orl.2016.07.002Battiston S. Delli Gatti D. Gallegati M. Greenwald B. and Stiglitz J. E. (2012).Liaisons dangereuses Increasing connectivity risk sharing and systemic risk.J. Econ. Dyn. Control 36 1121   1141. doi 10.1016/j.jedc.2012.04.001Bern   F. Ciprian M. Fanni N. Marassi D. and Pediroda V. (2006). Multicriteria credit rating (MCCR) a credit rating assignment process for Italianenterprises according to BASEL II. J. Finan. Dec. Making 2 1   26.Billio M. Getmansky M. Lo A. and Pellizzon L. (2012) Econometric measures ofsystemic risk in the    nance and insurance sector. J. Finan. Econ. 104 535   559.doi 10.1016/j.j   neco.2011.12.010Frontiers in Arti   cial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org5November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1 GiudiciFintech Risk ManagementBrito P. (2014) Symbolic data analysis another look at the interaction ofdata mining and statistics. WIREs Data Mining Knowl. Disc. 4 281   295.doi 10.1002/widm.1133Lauritzen (1996). Graphical Models. Oxford Wiley.Makrichoriti P. and Moratis G. (2016). BitCoin   s Roller Coaster Systemic Risk andMarket Sentiment. Athens Working Paper.Cerchiello P. and Giudici P. (2015). How to measure the quality of    nancialMantegna (1999). The European Physical Journal B Condensed Matter andtweets. Qual. Quant. 50 1   19. doi 10.1007/s1113501502296Complex Systems Vol. 11. Berlin 193   197.Chen C. Y. H. H  rdle W. K. Ai J. H. and Wang W. (2018) Pricingcase of CRIX and Bitcoin. SFB DP.thecryptocurrency optionsdoi 10.2139/ssrn.3159130Cruz M. G. (2002). Modelling Measuring and Hedging Operational Risk.New York NY Wiley Finance.De Filippi P. and Hassan S. (2016). Blockchain Technology as a RegulatoryTechnology From Code is Law to Law is Code. Chicago IL First Monday.doi 10.5210/fm.v21i12.7113Diebold F. and Yilmaz K. (2014). On the network topology of variancedecompositions measuring the connectedness of    nancial    rms. J. Econ. 182119   134. doi 10.1016/j.jeconom.2014.04.012European Commission (2018). Fintech Action Plan For a More Competitive andInnovative European Financial Sector. European Commission.Financial Stability Board (2017a). Arti   cial Intelligence and Machine Learning inFinancial Services Market Developments and Financial Stability Implications.Financial Stability Board.Financial Stability Board (2017b). Financial Stability Implications for FintechSupervisory and Regulatory Issues that Merit Authorities    Attention. FinancialStability Board.Foley S. Karlsen J. R. and Putnins T. J. (2018). Sex Drugs and Bitcoin How MuchIllegal Activity is Financed Through Cryptocurrencies. London Working Paper.Giudici P. (2003). Applied Data Mining. London Wiley.Giudici P. (2015). Scorecard models for operational management. Int. J. Data Sci.1 96   101. doi 10.1504/IJDS.2015.069055Giudici P. and AbuHashish (2018). What determines bitcoin exchange prices anetwork VAR approach. Finance Res. Lett. doi 10.1016/j.frl.2018.05.013. [Epubahead of print].Giudici P. and HadjiMisheva B. (2018). Network Scoring Models for P2P Lending.London Submitted Paper.Giudici P. and Polinesi G. (2018). Risk classi   cation methods in Robot AdvisoryPlatform. Pavia Submitted Technical Paper.GiudiciP.andSpelta A.international    nancial    ows.fordoi 10.1080/07350015.2015.1017643(2016). Graphicalnetwork modelsJ. Bus. Econ. Stat. 34 126   138.Guegan D. and Hassani B. (2017) Regulatory learning how to supervise machinelearning models? An application to credit scoring. J. Finance Data Sci. 4157   171. doi 10.1016/j.jfds.2018.04.001Hochreiter R. (2015). Computing trading strategies based on    nancial sentimentdata using evolutionary optimization. Adv. Intell. Syst. Comp. 378 181   191.doi 10.1007/9783319198248_15Jab  ecki J. Kokoszczynski R. Sakowski P. Slepaczuk R. and W  jcik P. (2015).Volatility as an Asset Class Obvious Bene   ts and Hidden Risks. Frankfurt PeterLang.Kaba  inskas A.   utiene K. Kopa M. and Valakevi  cius E. (2017) The risk   returnpro   le of Lithuanian private pension funds. Econ. Res. Ekonomska Istra  ivanja30 1611   1630. doi 10.1080/1331677X.2017.1383169Kersting K. (2018). Machine learning and arti   cialintelligence two fellowtravelers on the quest for intelligent behavior in machines. Front. Big Data 16.doi 10.3389/fdata.2018.00006Nakamoto S. (2009). Bitcoin A PeertoPeer Electronic Cash System. White Paper.Papenbrock J. and Schwendner P. (2015). Handling Risk On/Risk O    dynamicswith correlation regimes and correlation networks. Finan. Mark. Portf. Manage.29 125   147. doi 10.1007/s1140801502482Pontiveros B. B. F. Norvill R. and State R. (2018). Monitoring the TransactionSelection Policy of Bitcoin Mining Pools. To appear in NOMS 2018  IEEE/IFIPMan2BlockPost T. and Pot   V. (2016) Portfolio analysis using stochastic dominancelikelihood. Manage. Sci. 63 153   165.relative entropy and empiricaldoi 10.1287/mnsc.2015.2325Scherer M. U.(2016). Regulating arti   cialriskschallenges competencies and strategies. Harvard J. Law Technol. 291   48. doi 10.2139/ssrn.2609777intelligencesystemsTalonen A. Kulmala J. and Ruuskanen O. P. (2016).    Cooperative platformsharnessing the full potential of crowdfunding    in European Conferenceon Innovation and Entrepreneurship (Jyv  skyl   Academic ConferencesInternational Limited) 810.Tasca P. and Hayes P. (2016).    Blockchain and crypto currencies    in The FintechBook (London Wiley). Available online at http//the   ntechbook.com/Tola V. Lillo F. Gallegati M. and Mantegna R. N.(2008). Clusteranalysis for portfolio optimization. J. Econ. Dyn. Control 32 235   258.doi 10.1016/j.jedc.2007.01.034Toma  ev N. Buza K. and Mladenic D. (2016) Correcting the hub occurrenceprediction bias in many dimensions. Comp. Sci. Inform. Syst. 13 1   21.doi 10.2298/CSIS140929039TTraian P.D. Emese L. and Alfonso D. (2017). Information entropy and measuresof market risk. Entropy 19 226   245. doi 10.3390/e19050226Tumminello M. Aste T. Di Matteo T. and Mantegna R. N. (2005). A toolfor    ltering information in complex systems. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 10210421   10426. doi 10.1073/pnas.0500298102Valkanov N. (2016). Financial Science     Between Dogma and Reality. VarnaScience and Economics 400   445.V  rost T. Ly  csa   . and Baum  hl E. (2015). Granger causality stock marketnetworks temporal proximity and preferential attachment. Phys. A Stat. Mech.Appl. 427 262   276. doi 10.1016/j.physa.2015.02.017  ikovi  c Sa  a (2017).    Measuring    nancial risk in energy markets    in AppliedQuantitative Finance 3rd Edn eds C. Chen W. K. H  rdle and L. Overbeck(Berlin; Heidelberg Springer) 295   308.Con   ict of Interest Statement The author declares that the research wasconducted in the absence of any commercial or    nancial relationships that couldbe construed as a potential con   ict of interest.Copyright    2018 Giudici. This is an openaccess article distributed under the termsof the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use distribution orreproduction in other forums is permitted provided the original author(s) and thecopyright owner(s) are credited and that the original publication in this journalis cited in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use distribution orreproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms.Frontiers in Arti   cial Intelligence | www.frontiersin.org6November 2018 | Volume 1 | Article 1 '