b'herein fileIslamic Bank Service Quality and It   s Impact on Indonesian Customers    Satisfaction and LoyaltyMuniaty AisyahAbstract. Customers  are  still  in  doubt  of  its  professionalism.  Superiority  in products and service quality remains in sufficient for  customer satisfaction and loyalty. The data sets in this research were analyzed by using path analysis for testing  the  direct  impact  and  sobel  test  for  indirect  impact.  The  result  shows that  Islamic  bank  service  quality  in  Indonesia  impacts  customer  satisfaction and  loyalty.  However  customer  satisfaction  does  not  impact  customer  loyalty both directly and indirectly. It means that customers  are  still  dissatisfied  with the services provided by Islamic banks. This research recommends strategies for improving service quality and consumer confidence on the distinction of Islamic banking system.Keywords Islamic banks Islamic service quality customer satisfaction customer loyalty Abstrak.  Nasabah  masih  meragukan  profesionalisme  perbankan  syariah. Keunggulan  produk  dan  kualitas  layanan  merupakan  hal  penting  yang mendasari  tumbuhnya  kepuasan  dan  dan  loyalitas  nasabah.  Data  dalam penelitian ini dianalisis menggunakan analisis jalur untuk menguji hubungan langsung  dan  uji  Sobel  untuk  menguji  hubungan  tidak  langsung.  Hasilnya menunjukkan  bahwa  kualitas  layanan  Islami  bank  syariah  mempengaruhi kepuasan dan loyalitas nasabah namun kepuasan nasabah tidak mempengaruhi loyalitas nasabah baik secara langsung mapun tidak langsung. Artinya nasabah masih belum cukup puas dengan layanan bank syariah. Karenanya penelitian ini  bermaksud  merekomendasikan  strategi  yang  dapat  meningkatkan  kualitas layanan dan kepercayaan nasabah akan keunggulan sistem perbankan syariah.Kata  kunci  perbankan  syariah  kualitas  layanan  Islami  kepuasan  nasabah loyalitas nasabah How to CiteAisyah M. (2018). Islamic Bank Service Quality and It   s Impact on Indonesian Customers    Satisfaction and Loyalty. AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics). Vol. 10 (2) 367     388.  doi http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135.AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics)Volume 10 (2) July 2018PISSN 2087135X; EISSN 24078654Page 367  388Received December 10 2017; Revised February 15 2018; Accepted March 5 2018State Islamic University (UIN) Syarif Hidayatullah Jakarta. Jl. Ir. H. Juanda No. 95 Banten IndonesiaEmail muniaty.aisyah@uinjkt.ac.idDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135 368IntroductionDuring  the  last  three  decades  Islamic  banking  has  emerged  and  got momentum and become a global phenomenon with warm acceptance from Moslem and nonMoslem customers (Faisal et.al 2016). Many conventional banks even from nonMoslem countries are providing Islamic banking facilities as example Citibank  HSBC  OCBC  Standard  Chartered  etc  (Akhtar  and  Zaheer  2014). However according to the Financial Stability Report 2016  IFSB despite as the country with the largest Moslem population in the world Indonesia is still in the tenth rank based on the shares of global Islamic banking assets after Iran Saudi Arabia Malaysia UAE Kuwait Qatar Turkey Bahrain and Bangladesh (Zamir 2016). According to the Global Advisors    Islamic Finance Outlook Report for 2016 no Indonesian Islamic banks were ranked in the top five largest banks based on assets in Southeast Asia. The performance of the Islamic banking industry in Indonesia has yet to satisfy the public   s expectations. For three consecutive years the market share of the Islamic banks in the country stood still at less than 5 percent.Islamic  banking  provides  products  and  services  that  conforms  to  sharia (Islamic law) which strictly forbid not only riba (usury) or the excess interest charge such as additional charge on loan but also forbid the involvement of other unethical activities like speculation and gambling (Lajuni et.al 2017). Islamic banks are not burdened with paying interest for customer deposits. Islamic banks only pay a share of profits in accordance with the profitsharing ratios of Islamic banking. With the profitsharing system Islamic banks certainly survived the negative spread. Rather than collapsed as with the conventional banks in general the past economic and financial crisis instead had positive impacts on the development of Islamic banks. Islamic  banks  in  Indonesia  comprise  of  12  fully  fledged  Islamic  banks  and  22 conventional  banks  have  Islamic  banking  windows.  Indonesian  authorities  want Indonesia   s Islamic banks to hold at least 15% of the market by 2023. But inreality lots of Indonesian customers are still in doubt of Islamic bank service quality and professionalism because superiority in products and service quality remains necessary for customers (Hidayat et.al 2015). For customers quality of services is viewed as the standard type of the service offered to them how it is performed and the extent of its fulfillment to their needs desires and hopes which requires continual service improvement (Hammoud and Bittar 2016). Customer satisfaction and loyalty will grow if the products and services meets with customer expectations (Amin 2011). Although  there  are  already  lots  of  previous  researches  analyzing  about Islamic banks    service quality most of them still used a conventional measurement that  derived  from  Western  perspective  especially  the  five  multidimensions  of SERVQUAL (assurance reliability tangibles empathy and responsiveness) proposed AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  369by Parasuraman et.al. in 1988. Unlike other financial institutions Islamic bank must fully comply with sharia. Thus in its all practices including the service quality offered by Islamic bank must also appropriates to Islamic principles and values. Rather than applying a conventional measurement of service quality this research will shed light on Islamic perspective measurement of Islamic banks    service quality by using an instrument called CARTER proposed by Othman and Owen in 2001 that consists of six dimensionsby adding    complience    as the new dimension which will define Islamic  bank   s  ability  to  operate  in  compliance  with  the  principles  of  sharia  or Islamic law. As  its  development  in  the  dimension  of  compliance  this  research  will measure not only wheather the customers sure that in its practices Islamic bank is not engaged with interest based transactions but also will measure wheather the customers  sure  that  Islamic  banks  always  conduct  financial  transactions  that  are connected with economic activities in real sector rather than financial sector like many  other  conventional  bank  practices  or  not  participate  in  transactions  that could exploit any party and not participate in activities that are regarded as harmful to  the  society  which  are  assembled  within  the  Islamic  principles.  Therefore  this research will measure the level of Islamic service quality implementation in Islamic banking by using CARTER instrument especially in Bank Syariah Mandiri (BSM) in South Jakarta as sample. BSM is the largest Islamic bank in Indonesia which from 2011 to 2014 had achived the best Service Quality Award. However according to the Service Quality Index in 2015 and 2016 BSM was in the second place after BNI Syariah followed by Bank Muamalat BCA Syariah and BRI Syariah. In  addition  most  of  previous  researches  only  discussing  service  quality impacts  on  customer  satisfaction  or  customer  loyalty  separately.  While  in  this research  besides  analizing  Islamic  banks     service  quality  impact  on  customer satisfaction  and  customer  loyalty  directly  and  separately  this  research  will  also analyze its impact on customer loyalty indirectly through customer satisfactionas an  intervening  variable.  By  measuring  its  level  of  service  quality  and  analyze  its impact on customer satisfaction and customer loyalty both directly and indirectly this research will offer recommendations and strategies for improving service quality and consumers    confidence on the distinction of Islamic banking in Indonesia that is safe and fair for customers Moslem and nonMoslem. Literature ReviewAs the outcome of customer   s current evaluation and consumption experience service quality is expected to have a direct and positive effect on overall customer satisfaction. The service quality concept of banking does not differ from the concept http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 370of service quality in general (Zeithami et.al 1996; Hidayat et.al 2015; Hammoud and Bittar 2016). However because Islamic banking is accordingly to sharia which is different from conventional banking in several ways such as the prohibition of transactions  based  on  interest  rate  and  the  requirement  that  bank  operations  be carried out accordingly to certain procedures through the use of certain financial instruments it is important to pattern the compliance for Islamic banking quality services (Othman and Owen 2001a; Akhtar and Zaheer 2014; Faisal et.al 2016). To understand customer needs of Islamic banking quality service Othman and  Owen  (2001a)  developed  an  instrument  called  CARTER  that  consists  of six dimensions which developed from the first five dimensions of service quality called SERVQUAL proposed by Parasuraman et.al. (1988). A new dimension of    compliance    was added to define Islamic bank   s ability to operate in compliance with the principles of Islamic law. The six dimensions of CARTER are (Othman and Owen 2001a; Akhtar and Zaheer 2014; Faisal et.al 2016) first Compliance refers to compatibility of bank services with Islamic laws and principles; second Assurance is the services of awareness and politeness of the workforces that employed by the Islamic bank. It also comprises of all types of communication between the Islamic bank  workforces  with  customers;  third  Reliability  is  the  capacity  to  deliver  the promised services in dependable and accurate manner; fourth Tangibles refers to the appearance of physical components; fifth Empathy is the ability of workforces to considerate and customize attention for customers; and sixth Responsiveness is the ability and willingness of worforces to help customers and provide prompt services.A prompt quality services provided by Islamic bank will achieve customer satisfaction. The satisfied customers share their positive experiences with others and become the source of wordofmouth advertising. On the other hand unsatisfied customers share negative wordofmouth and more likely switch to other products or services. A bank needs to be aware on the satisfaction of their customers which is  expected  with  the  increase  of  customer  using  capacity  (Hamzah  et.al  2015). Customer satisfaction represents a modern approach for quality in organizations that serves the development of a customerfocused management and culture (Mihelis et.al 2001 and Hamzah et.al 2015). Because loyalty is facilitated by customer satisfaction (Kishada and Wahab 2013) customer satisfaction is a determinant for Islamic banking to increase their customer value which will inculcate customer loyalty and assist the organization to be more competitive. In the absence of satisfaction customers are unlikely to spend more  on  company  products  or  services  and  recommend  the  product  or  services to others. Many scholars has defined loyalty as a deeplyheld predisposition to reAlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  371patronize a preferred brand or service consistently in the future thereby causing repetitive  same  brand  purchasing  despite  situational  influences  and  marketing efforts having the potential to cause switching behavior (Oliver 1999). Loyalty also refers to a consumers    commitment to repurchase a preferred product and service consistently  in  the  future  (Amin  2011).  Thus  customer  loyalty  is  an  intended behavior that is related to a product service the brand or the organization. The  characteristic  of  customer  loyalty  had  been  categorized  into  four sequential phases (Oliver 1999; Rai and Srivasta 2012). First Cognitive loyalty. The customer believes a product service the brand or the organization is superior rather than others and chooses it over others and the information about it will affect consumer  buying  decision.  Second  Affective  loyalty.  Reiterated  confirmations  of customer expectations lead to affective form of loyalty where a particularly favorable attitude gets developed towards the product service the organization or the brand. Third  Conative  loyalty.  High  involvement  and  motives  fueled  by  strong  buying intentions will give way to the development of an intense form of loyalty. Fourth Action loyalty. Strong motivations that ultimately lead to actions directed by the need to remove every possible problem that might hinder the loyalty driven decision of purchasing a specific product service the brand or the organization.Based on the literature reviews the hypotheses in this research are (see Figure 1)  (1)  Islamic  service  quality  directly  impacts  customer  satisfaction  (2)  Islamic service quality directly impacts customer loyalty (3) Customer satisfaction directly impacts  customer  loyalty  and  (4)  Islamic  service  quality  indirectly  impacts  on customer loyalty through customer satisfaction. Figure 1. Path Analysis ModelMethodThis research is a field research that was done by survey and used primary data that was collected by personally administered questionnaires techniques. As instrument the questionnaires are directly delivered and collected by the researcher http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 372(Indriantoro and Supomo 2002). The questionnaires used Likert scale model that was conducted by measuring five categories of responses that requires the respondent to  determine  the  degree  of  approval  or  disapproval  of  each  variables  (Maholtra 2009) with a weight of 5 (strongly agree) 4 (agree) 3 (neutral) 2 (disagree) and 1 (strongly disagree) (Riduwan and Kuncoro 2008). This  research  used  probability  sampling  technique  with  convenience sampling.  The  sample  is  the  customers  of  Bank  Syariah  Mandiri  that  located in South Jakarta. To calculate the sample size of the population of Indonesian customers    Islamic banking this research used the estimations of mean value with 95% of confidence level which is obtained 96.04 samples (Wibisono in Riduwan and  Kuncoro  2008).  Thus  this  research  will  use  100  respondents  as  samples. After the development of instrument the data testing was conducted by validity and reliability test continued with normality test (Ghozali 2013). Path analysis was used to analyze the patterns of relationships between variables with  the  aim  to  find  out  directly  or  indirectly  influence  the  set  of  independent variables (exogenous) against the dependent variable (endogenous) (Riduwan and Kuncoro 2008). If the p value is equal or less than 0.05 the statistically analysis is significant at 95% confidence level. The equation model is breakdown into two substructures as follows Every  sub  structure  run  by  several  test  of  coefficient  of  determination  (adjusted Rsquare) test simultaneously (F) test partial (t) test. This  research  will  also  use  Sobel  test  to  determine  whether  customer satisfaction is an intervening variabel or whether there is indirect impacts between Islamic bank service qualities with customer loyalty through customer satisfaction with a formula as followsSp2p3 =    p3  Sp2   + p2  Sp3   + Sp2  Sp3  Descriptionp2  beta of Islamic service quality in unstandardized coefficient column.p3  beta of customer satisfaction in unstandardized coefficient column.Sp2 standard error of Islamic service quality in unstandardized coefficient column.Sp3 standard error of customer satisfaction in unstandardized coefficient column.A  variable  called  an  intervening  variable  if  the  variable  indirectly  impact  the relationship between independent and dependent variable (Baron and Kenny 1986 in Ghozali 2013). The sobel test was used to test the strength of the indirect impact Y =   yxX +      Z =   zxX +   zyY +      AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  373of independent variables (X) to the dependent variable (Z) through an intervening variable (Y) (Sobel 1982 in Ghozali 2013).Result and DiscussionThis research used 50% female and 50% male respondents. Based on the age the majority of respondents (80%) are in the productive age between 1856 years. Based on the amount of income per month the majority of respondents (66%) came from the middle economic class with income between IDR 3 to 10 million per month. To measure the customer loyalty all respondents must have been becomed customers for more than two years. The validity dan realibility tests showed that all items were valid and all variables were reliable. From normality test it can be concluded that the data is normally distributed. Table 1. Coefficient Determination Test Result of Sub Structure IModelRR SquareAdjusted R SquareStd. Error of the Estimate1.567a.321.3145.474a. Predictors (Constant) ISQThe  calculation  results  of  coefficient  of  determination  (adjusted  Rsquare) test  simultaneous  (F)  test  and  partial  (t)  test  of  Sub  Structure  I  as  follows  the adjusted Rsquare value is 0.314 it means that 31.4% of the variation of the customer satisfaction (Y) can be explained by the variation of one independent variable of the Islamic service quality (X) while the rest (68.6%) was explained by other causes beyond  the  model  (See Table  1).  From  the  simultaneous  hypothesis  testing  the F value is 46.351 with a probability of 0.000 while from the partial hypothesis testing; the calculation of t test value was obtained 6.808 with the probability of significance 0.000 (See Table 2). From  the  partial  hypothesis  testing  the  calculation  of  t  test  value  was obtained  6.808  with  the  probability  of  significance  0.000. With  a  significance level of 0.05 and degrees of freedom with df = n2 1002 = 98 the number of t table is 1.664. The result of t test value (6.808) is greater than t table (1.664) with the significantcy level of 0.000 that is less than 0.05 (See Table 3). Thus Islamic  service  quality  significantly  impacts  customer  satisfaction.  Most  of empirical studies have proposed a causal relationship between service quality and customer satisfaction. Many researchers founded the fact that service quality is a sufficient measurement of customer satisfaction (Hamzah et.al 2015). Customers http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 374will satisfy if the services profided by the company meets with their expectations (Amin 2011). Table 2. F Test Result of Sub Structure IModelSum of SquaresRegressionResidualTotal1388.7442936.2164324.960df19899a. Dependent Variable CSb. Predictors (Constant) ISQMean Square1388.74429.961F46.351Sig..000bService  quality  is  the  key  factor  to  increase  customer  satisfaction.  The level  of  satisfaction  is  created  by  particular  transaction  between  the  bank  and the  customer  as  psychological  condition  that  generats  when  emotional  factor encourages  customer  expectation  that  is  adopted  from  the  past  consumption experiences  (Oliver  1981  in  Hidayat  et.al  2015).  Thus  in  banking  industry service  quality  is  an  important  element  to  gain  success  to  grow  up  and  to  be able to compete with competitors. However financial services provides by banks generally  undifferentiate.  To  become  different  the  bank  needs  to  continually improve their service quality which is critical for the expansion of its market share (Dahari et.al 2015). To improve their service quality the bank needs to measure and evaluate their service quality first. Table 3. t Test Result of Sub Structure IStandardized CoefficientsUnstandardized CoefficientsB22.599.810Std. Error4.569.119Beta.567t4.9476.808Sig..000.000 Model (Constant) ISQa. Dependent Variable CSLots of previous studies used the five multidimensional construct of service quality called SERVQUAL proposed by Parasuraman et.al. in 1988 (Hamzah et.al 2015). According to Zeithaml et.al. (1996) service quality is measured as the outcome of customers    current evaluation and consumption experience which is expected to AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  375have a direct and positive effect on customer satisfaction in overall. Parasuraman et.al. (1985) in Hammoud and Bittar (2016) assured that lots of researchers found many problems when they tried to interprete the measurement of service quality because  they  only  used  one  dimension  from  their  own  perspective.  At  first  in 1985 they tried to find a more suitable criteria of its measurement from customer perspectives by using a survey focus groups and found ten new criteria in evaluating service  quality  which  were  reliability  responsiveness  tangibility  competence access  courtesy  communication  credibility  understanding  the  customers  and security  (Hammoud  and  Bittar  2016).  Then  in  their  earlier  work  Parasuraman et.al. (1988) sought to develop a general instrument of service quality measurement which  they  called  SERVQUAL  that  only  consists  of  five  dimensional  construct while the other five dimensions were already imbedded in the first five dimensions. They are tangibility (appearance of physical components) reliability (dependability of service provider and accuracy of performance) responsiveness (promptness and helpfulness) assurance (knowledge and courtesy of employees and their ability to inspire trust and confidence) and empathy (caring individualized attention that the firm gives its customers) (Hamzah et.al 2015; Hidayat et.al 2015; Hammoud and Bittar 2016). While Mihelis et.al. (2001) devided customer satisfaction in to four factors which are personnel image services offered and accessibility. Personnel includes  of  skills  knowledge  responsiveness  and  friendliness  communication  of the banks. Image consists of the technology excellence and ability to satisfy future needs. Services offered contains of the appearance of the bank waiting time service processes and an adequate information given. Accessibility comprises of the network expansion branches location service system and the location of the bank Unlike other financial institutions Islamic bank must fully complies with sharia.  Thus  in  its  all  practices  including  the  service  quality  offered  by  Islamic bank must also appropriates to Islamic principles and values (Othman and Owen 2001a; Hassan et.al 2012; Akhtar and Zaheer 2014; Hidayat et.al 2015; Faisal et.al 2016). To understand customer needs and to improve Islamic bank services and performance Othman and Owen (2001a) developed a new instrument called CARTER for Islamic service quality measurement that consists of six dimensions. This was the first time a new dimension of    compliance with Islamic principles    was added along with other five dimensions of SERVQUAL which are assurance reliability tangible empathy and responsiveness (Akhtar and Zaheer 2014; Faisal et.al 2016).From the results of descriptive statistical analysis the service quality level of Islamic bank in this reseach is high with 3.813 mean value. The criteria of the mean levels are 1 to 2 is very low; 2.1 to 3 is low; 3.1 to 3.5 is average; 3.6 to 4.5 is high; http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 376and 4.6 to 5 is very high. This high level of service quality was constructed from the six dimensions of CARTER. The higest construct is developed from Assurance (3.940). According to customers the awareness and the politeness of Islamic bank workforces  is  high.  They  also  have  established  a  good  communication  with  the customers. Followed by Tangibility (3.830) that refers to the good appearance of Islamic bank physical components such as waiting room teller desk atm and the office appearance in overall. Then followed by Responsiveness (3.815) which refers to the ability and willingness of Islamic bank workforces to help their customers. While  both  Compliance  and  Reliability  are  equally  high  (3.800).  According  to customers the bank is able to operate in compliance with the Islamic principles and laws. They sure that in its practices Islamic bank is not engaged with interest based transactions conduct financial transactions which are connected with many real economic activities; not participate in transactions that could exploit any party; and not participate in activities that are regarded as harmful to the society. Equal to the Complience the customers also feels that the Reliability or the Islamic bank commitment to provide the promised services is steady and accurate. The last is Empathy (3.695). The customers feels that the Islamic bank workforces are able to considerate and customize high attention to their needs. This level of Islamic bank service  quality  equates  and  significantly  impacts  on  customer  satisfaction  based on the results of partial hypothesis testing which means that the services profided by the Islamic bank meets with customer expectation and eduquet as a sufficient measurement of customer satisfaction (Amin 2011; Ali and Raza 2015).   For Sub Structure II the results as follows the amount of adjusted Rsquare is 0.154 it means that 15.4% of the variation of the customer loyalty (Z) can be explained by the variation of two independent variables of Islamic service quality (X) and customer satisfaction (Y). While the rest (84.6%) explained by other causes beyond the model (See Table 4). The adjusted Rsquare value is low however there are  two  major  reasons  why  it  can  be  just  fine  to  have  low  Rsquare  or  adjusted Rsquare  values.  In  some  fields  it  is  entirely  expected  that  Rsquare  or  adjusted Rsquare values will be low. For example any field that attempts to predict human behavior (in this case is customer satisfaction and loyalty) typically has Rsquare values lower than 50%. Humans are simply harder to predict than say physical processes. Furthermore if Rsquare value is low but the research has statistically significant predictors it can still draw important conclusions about how changes in the predictor values are associated with changes in the response value. Regardless of the Rsquare the significant coefficients still represent the mean change in the response for one unit of change in the predictor while holding other predictors in the model constant (Frost 2013).AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  377Table 4. Coefficient Determination Test Result of Sub Structure IIModel1R.414aR SquareAdjusted R SquareStd. Error of the Estimate.172.1542.783a. Predictors (Constant) CS ISQ From  the  simultaneous  hypothesis  testing  the  F  value  is  10.042  with a  probability  of  0.000  which  is  much  smaller  than  0.05  (See  Table  5).  Thus the  Islamic  service  quality  and  customer  satisfaction  impact  customer  loyalty simultaneously. From the partial hypothesis testing of the impact of Islamic service quality on customer loyalty the calculation of t test value was obtained 3.138 with the probability of significance 0.002. With a significance level of 0.05 and degrees of freedom with df = n2 1002 = 98 the number of t table is 1.664. The result of t test value (3.138) is greater than t table (1.664) with the significantcy level of 0.002 that is less than 0.05 thus the Islamic service quality significantly impacts the customer loyalty (See Table 6). Table 5. F Test Result of Sub Structure IIModelSum of SquaresRegressionResidualTotal155.585751.455907.040df29799a. Dependent Variable CLb. Predictors (Constant) CS ISQMean SquareF77.7937.74710.042Sig..000bMany  researchers  found  out  that  service  quality  increases  market  share  and repeated sales that ultimately leads to the customer loyalty (Rust et.al 1993 in Badara et.al 2013). A high level of service quality also enhances customer tendency to use more  services  to  become  less  pricesensitive  and  willing  to  tell  others  about  the favorable and useful services provided by the company (Kishada and Wahab 2013).From the partial hypothesis testing of the impact of customer satisfaction on customer loyalty the calculation of t test value was obtained 0.859 with the probability of significance 0.393. With a significance level of 0.05 and degrees of freedom with df = n2 1002 = 98 the number of t table is 1.664. The result of t test value (0.859) is less than t table (1.664) with the significantcy levels of 0.393 which is greater than 0.05 thus it can be concluded that customer satisfaction does http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 378not impact customer loyalty. It means that customer satisfaction on Islamic bank is not high enough to develop customer loyalty. Table 6. t Test Result of Sub Structure IIUnstandardized CoefficientsStandardized CoefficientsB11.219.230.044Std. ErrorBeta2.597.073.051.352.096t4.3203.138.859Sig..000.002.393 Model (Constant) ISQ CSa. Dependent Variable CSTo  analyse  whether  customer  satisfaction  is  an  intervening  variable  or whether there is indirect impacts between Islamic service qualities with customer loyalty  through  customer  satisfaction  Sobel  test  was  used.  With  0.05  level  of significancy the result of t test value (0.85) is less than t table (1.96) thus it can be concluded that customer satisfaction in this case is not an intervening variable. It means that there is no indirect impact of Islamic service quality on customer loyalty through or which mediated by customer satisfaction. This also means that customer satisfaction on Islamic bank is not high enough to develop customer loyalty while the Islamic service quality level of Islamic bank is also not high enough to maintain the customer loyalty thus the Islamic bank still has to increase their level of service quality.Islamic banking provides products and services based on sharia (Islamic law) that in practically forbid interest (riba) (Kishada and Wahab 2013; Dahari et.al 2015; Wahyuni and Fitriani 2017). Besides financial intermediation Islamic banks also  provide  other  financial  services  to  create  income  diversification  and  added value  to  their  customers.  Fee  based  services  that  given  by  Islamic  bank  to  their customers are divided into three groups financial service agent and non financial service. Wakalah (financial representative) Kafalah (guarantee) Hiwalah (account receivable transfer) Rahn (pawn) and Sharf (foreign exchange) are fee based service activities under financial service group. Mudharabah muqqayyadah (profit sharing activity) is fee based service under agent group. Wadi   ah yad dhamanah (product or money deposit) is feebased service under nonfinancial service group (Hardianto and Wulandari 2016). To become competitive from the economic perspective Islamic banking have AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  379structured products that have similar riskreturn features of conventional products. While from legal perspective this is done by using several legitimate Islamic contracts to  produce  outcomes  that  replicate  conventional  products  which  are  compliance with sharia (Ahmed 2014). It is necessary for Islamic banks to have acreative and progressive financial engineering that still offer an efficient and competitive banking system. In fact Islamic banking industry nowadays is facing very strong competition in  technology  and  communication  systems  advancement.  (Othman  and  Owen 2001a; Kishada and Wahab 2013; Dahari et.al 2015; Wahyuni and Fitriani 2017). Therefore just like conventional banks the superiority in products and service quality is  not  exception  for  Islamic  banks  which  will  remain  in  sufficient  for  customer satisfaction and loyalty (Hidayat et.al 2015).Based on the descryptive statistical testing Islamic bank still needs to increase its service quality in order to maintain customer satisfaction and creat customer loyalty. It can be done in the following manner. According to the customers the waiting time is still too long because of some reasons which become serious problems that evoke disappointment and could lead to customer disloyalty. To improve their time management Islamic banks need to increase the number of teller and customer service  counters.  According  to  customers  sometimes  even  though  counters  have been added but the number of workforces who served in the teller or cutomer service are still lacking. This is usually happened to the subbranch office that has recently increased to a branch office. This means that the management is still delayed in providing additional workforces.   Islamic banks also need to train their worforces to work faster and to be more easily understood when they serve the customers by restoring their standard of procedure with a more effective ones so it can suits with the customer needs in  order  to  be  able  to  compete  with  conventional  banks     services  which  already succesly manage their time management. They also need to be trained intensively and  periodically  especially  in  order  to  have  a  deep  understanding  about  Islamic bank products. According to customers some workforces do not understand about the difference between Islamic bank products with conventional ones. Another problem is many Islamic banks still use manual queuing number system which has no longer used by conventional banks. They need to change their obsolete  queuing  system  with  an  advance  technology  which  are  equipped  with modern devices like automatic queuing machine with digital information system. Since  Islamic  banks  operate  under  different  principles  and  cultures  the  latest technology plays a really important role in gaining popularity for the bank among customers (Othman and Owen 2001b). In addition Islamic banks should focus on improving their physical facilities in order to overcome negative perceptions and http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 380to enhance their image among customers (Thaker et.al 2016). When builds a new bank or renovating an existing one there are brand new considerations that all banks take into account these days. These considerations involve the level of satisfaction the clients and workforces will experience when using the bank   s facilities. Several studies have been performed in the immediate environment of leading banks around the world. Many banks are now trying to make their own banking environment as enjoyable as possible for everyone. From the results of these studies the focus was shifted to combine the requirements of the clients or users with a more pleasurable overall experience when visiting their bank. In this research the customers suggested that it is necessary for Islamic bank to arrange a more comfortable waiting room with a more comfortable seats.The Islamic bank location is also a problem not all branches are located in a strategic area. It means there is still no standardization in setting a new branch location.Thus the management need to have a standard procedure in establishing a feasibility study before determining the new branch location. According to Weon et.al. (2010) the branches located in the districts of higher degree centrality and closeness centrality had achieved more customers than the branches in the lower degree of centrality and closeness centrality districts. In this research the customers prefer to choose a branch that is located closed to their offices shooping centers their houses schools or colleges and easily by passed by public transportations. Islamic  banks  also  need  to  expanse  their  networks  with  an  advanced technology and delivery system. The traditional bank delivery system has been the branch network. Modern banks however do not rely on the number of its branch network anymore as customers have demands for more advance and convenient delivery systems. Existing literature on banking efficiency usually focus on tangible value creation such as the amount of profit gained or costs reduction. Other aspect such as operation process and system efficiency in the delivery system received little attention (Hooy and Chan 2014). There has been a revolution with tremendous impact  on  the  banking  products  and  services  space  with  an  increase  in  the usage of mobile gadgets telecom and data services at affordable rates regulated ecommerce platforms assuring security and the emergence of new market players with growing customer awareness and expectations (Gnanmote 2017). The use of  mobile  banking  and  electronic  banking  have  change  the  nature  of  banking activities and provides a lot of other advantages over traditional banking delivery channels. (Hooy and Chan 2014).Nowdays  the  world  of  business  comprises  many  companies  that  use technology  as  a  catalyst  to  offer  various  financial  services  to  the  end  users  more efficiently.  This  is  Fintech  revolution.  Fintech  is  the  abbreviation  of  financial AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  381technology (Gnanmote 2017). Fintech has been growing speedily with a global investment reported to be at USD19 billion in 2015 compared to only USD1.8 billion in 2010. The main types of services offered by Fintech are peertopeer (P2P) lending crowdfunding money transfer mobile payments and trading platforms. In addition there are also Fintech services for other subsegments such as wealth management insurance etc (Hasan 2017). Fintech in the banking and financial sector normally offer their services in the form of products applications business processes and business models. The target for Fintech in the banking and financial sector are from the consumer and commercial  lending  and  payments  space.  One  of  the  core  businesses  of  banks and financial institutions is lending and borrowing money. Traditional banks and financial institutions have provided variants of products and services in this area to their customers over the last several years. Fintech entered this business to provide the facility of lending and borrowing money online which was widely accepted by lenders borrowers and facilitators across the globe due to its advanced security access promotional features and new customer profiling techniques. The acceptance is not only from customers but also from the regulators promoting them to ensure secured transactions for the lenders on such online platforms (Gnanmote 2017).Besides landing and borrowing banks and financial institutions have been enabling  their  customers  to  make  numerous  payment  transactions  using  their products and services for quite some time. After the technology boom the area of payments was the most lucrative due to the availability of advanced mobile gadgets easy access to various data networks and a wide range of innovative products and applications introduced in the market by Fintech to draw customer attention away from traditional to online platforms. These applications and products with their advanced integration capabilities allow customers to directly partner with merchant vendors and help in removing thirdparty channels to cut the associated cost for a good customer experience. Many ewallet providers have collaborated with different industry players of different segments to capture a portion of share in such market revenue (Gnanmote 2017).As  a  noncash  transaction  tool  emoney  and  ewallet  are  increasingly  in demand by the public including in Indonesia. Emoney began to grow in Indonesia in 2007 which is appearing in the form of chipbased that is planted on cards or other media. There are approximately nine chipbased electronic money currently available in the market Flazz BCA eMoney Mandiri Brizzi BRI Tap Cash BNI Blink  BTN  Mega  Cash  Nobu  eMoney  JakCard  Bank  DKI  and  Skye  Mobile Money  by  Skye  Sab  Indonesia.  While  ewallet  or  electronic  money  based  on server which currently available in Indonesian market are TCash Telkomsel XL http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 382Tunai Rekening Ponsel CIMB Niaga BBM Money Permata Bank DOKU and many more. Based on statistical data in 2017 reported that the value of Fintech transactions  has  reached  15  billion  US  dollars.  The  large  penetration  of  digital technology utilization in Indonesia encourages the government to make the digital economy as one of the government main focus.Digital technology utilization in financial services create challenges into the way banks currently adapt to innovation. It is not exception for Islamic banking and finance. According to the assistant governor of Malaysia Marzunisham Omar the growth of Fintech provides innovative opportunities within the entire financial sector and thus Islamic Fintech cannot be ignored by the Islamic banking and finance industry. In the Islamic finance arena there are a few prominent Islamic Fintech companies  among  others  include  Singaporebased  KapitalBoost  Malaysiabased Ethis  Kapital  Sdn.  Bhd.  which  operates  NusaKapital.com  and  USbased Wahed Invest LLC in the segments of P2P lending and crowdfunding (Hasan 2017).Islamic Fintech is still in its early phase; nonetheless its potential disruptions to traditional Islamic banking and finance should not be underestimated. Market Research Abu Dhabi Report Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank the largest shariacompliant lender  in  United  Arab  Emirates  announced  it  is  mulling  to  allocate  significant financial capitals on digital technology this year. The move was planned to lower operational costs and increase revenues by having an agile branch network which depends less on humans. Phil King the head of retail banking at Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank said that human touch is still largely important and he assured that there will be a hybrid model emerging which is digital with a human touch. Their customers want to be able to do financial transactions digitally but they still want to be able to meet their relationship manager. In line with Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank according to Sanyalaksna Manibhandu the head of research at NBAD Securities of Emirates NBD  the  Dubai   s  greatest  bank  by  resources  bank  clients  are  going  advanced so banks need to tilt their item offering to suit computerized channels and create advanced channels. So digitisation with respect to the bank is being driven by client request. According to IFSB secretarygeneral Jaseem Ahmad there are tremendous opportunities for Islamic Fintech and Islamic banking institutions are taking up Fintech to reach out and improve the attractiveness of their products at a lower cost. Also the Islamic banking and finance industry currently reaches approximately 100 million customers worldwide however the potential market is six times that and  this  gap  can  also  be  tapped  through  Fintech  (Hasan  2017).  Considering the  phenomenon  of  the  emergence  of  Islamic  Fintech  in  various  parts  of  the world  according  to  Sugeng  Deputy  Governor  of  Indonesian  Central  Bank  the AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  383opportunities for Islamic Fintech in Indonesia is quite large. Still it will take effort from all parties. Several things that need to be concerned is the strengthening of the institutional aspects of Islamic Fintech infrastructure the application of usefull and efficient Islamic Fintech the socialization of Islamic Fintech to Islamic financial institutions by Fintech experts as well as increasing public understanding in general. As reported by the World Bank with the presence of Fintech approximately two billion adults who are currently unbanked will now have access to financial solutions. Moving to the Southeast Asian region only 27% of the region   s 600 million people have a bank account and approximately 40% of the unbanked are Muslims. This serves as an impetus for Islamic Fintech in addressing financial inclusion. With the availability of Shariahcompliant crowdfunding and P2P financing tools this creates opportunities for individuals and SMEs (Small and Medium Enterprises) who require financing but thus far do not qualify for financing from traditional Islamic banking institutions. For example in the case of Singaporebased Islamic Fintech companyof KapitalBoost it offers SMEs who are often disadvantaged in their access to funds for business expansion shortterm financing alternatives with fast and friendly approval process and at competitive rates. Financing is provided through  Shariahcompliant  structures  such  as  Murabaha Qard  Wakalah  etc (Hassan 2017).Overall with Fintech services it can help the unbanked to create a new form of credit history and moving from there at the next phase they can then be served by the larger Islamic banking and finance. Middle East region key Islamic banking and  finance  jurisdictions  such  as  Bahrain  Dubai  and  Abu  Dhabi  sees  Islamic Fintech as a huge opportunity. Bahrain has recently partnered with the Singapore Fintech Consorsium to drive Fintech development in the Kingdom. The aim of the partnership is to mainly build the Kingdom into becoming the region   s Fintech powerhouse. Other key Islamic banking and finance jurisdiction such as Malaysia also sees Islamic Fintech as an opportunity. According to Al Rajhi Bank Malaysia Islamic Fintech is seen as an opportunity where with appropriate approach it will help  to  widen  the  Islamic  banking  institutions  reach  and  overcome  its  network constarians  and  clients     reach.  A  successful  innovative  collaboration  between Fintech  and  Islamic  banking  institutions  in  Malaysia  is  the  recent  development of the Investment Account Platform (IAP) which is envisaged to become a crossborder multicurrency channel linking into regional and global economies. Parallel to  other  Fintech  platforms  such  as  crowdfunding  and  peertopeer  lending IAP  facilitates  direct  investment  by  investors  in  viable  ventures  of  their  choices nonetheless a key differentiating factor of IAP is the roles undertaken by Islamic banking institutions     it wil provide investors with direct access to a broad range http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 384of investment opportunities and businesses as well as Islamic banking institutions with a new source of funding (Hasan 2017).All in all Islamic banking institutions including in Indonesia the country with the largest Muslim population in the world is expected to add Fintech as their value to serve customer needs. By embracing these themes and creating the right foundations will allow Islamic banks to disrupt their own business model rather than sit on the sidelines watching challenger models disintermediate them. Islamic banks need to create new businesses within their existing structures that adapt and collaborate to meet these challenges and make better use faster of their enduring source of competitive advantage.ConclusionCustomer satisfaction has a very important role to inculcate customer loyalty. In this research the noninfluential customer satisfaction toward customer loyalty indicates that Islamic bank has not been able to build a strong relationship with the customers thus hey still possible to move to another bank which offer better products  and  services.  Indirectly  the  Islamic  service  quality  also  has  no  impact toward customer loyalty through customer satisfaction thus the service quality of Islamic bank has not supported its strategy yet. This implicates that Islamic bank need to redevelop policies related to the standard  of  business  practices  which  the  bank  expects  from  all  of  its  workforces accordingly  to  the  customers  needs.  The  objective  is  to  make  the  bank  as  a professionally  run  and  managed  successful  and  profitable  with  high  standards. Islamic bank still need to make effort to increase the quality of service by improving the workforces    performance through various training programs to increase their abilities in dealings with customers in high standards and to increase their knowledge about Islamic bank products and its system. As the result they will be able to describe the products and the system better thus they could maintain customer confidence and satisfaction on the excellence of Islamic bank that is safe and fair which will eventually build a strong customer loyalty. This research also implicates that the Islamic bank need to redevelop policies related to the standard of procedure or the feasibility study in deciding a strategic branch  location  before  opening  a  new  one.  In  addition  Islamic  bank  need  to improve its infrastructure in the form of modern buildings and devices including an automatic machine queue with digital information system a comfortable waiting room with comfortable seats advance software and hardware etc to maintain and improve the efficiency of the operational and managerial of Islamic bank.AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  385Nowadays the revolution of financial technology (Fintech) in developed and developing countries has slowly moved from Internet banking to mobile banking and  is  now  taking  a  new  direction  toward  digital  banking.  The  need  for  open innovation collaboration and investment in the right direction will lead traditional banks  to  the  path  of  digital  banking.  Banks  should  challenge  this  technological change positively by not being complacent and not just waiting for interest changes from  regulators;  rather  they  should  work  on  the  key  strategies  that  can  redefine banking in this new digital and competitive era. They should find ways and means to collaborate with fintech firms startups and other market players considering all the financial and regulatory implications that will keep them ahead in the race (Gnanmote 2017). The growth of Fintech provides innovative opportunities within the entire financial sector thus it cannot be ignored by Islamic bank. Success or failure of Islamic banking in Indonesia today is depended on its capabilities and policies to anticipate and react the changes in the marketplace fastly. Through Islamic Fintech financial transactions in Islamic bank will become more automated userfriendly and more convenient leading to a higher customer satisfaction and loyalty. ReferencesAhmed  H.  (2014).  Islamic  Banking  and  Shari   ah  Compliance  A  Product Development Perspective. Journal of Islamic Finance. Vol. 3 (2) 1529.Akhtar A. & Zaheer A. (2014). Service Quality Dimensions of Islamic Banks A Scale  Development  Approach.  Global  Journal  of  Management  and  Business Research Administration and Management. Vol. 14 (5) 1020.Ali  M.  &  Raza  S.  A.  (2015).  Measurement  of  Service  Quality  Perception  and Customer Satisfaction inIslamic Banks of Pakistan Evidence from Modified SERVQUAL  Model.  Munich  Personal  RePEc  Archive  (MPRA)  Paper  No. 64039.Amin  M.  (2011).  The  Role  of  Customer  Satisfaction  in  Enhancing  Customer Loyalty in Malaysian Islamic banks. The Service Industries Journal. Vol. 31 (9) 15191532.Badara M. S. Mat N. K. N. Mujtaba A. M. AlRefa A. N. Badara A. M. & Abubakar F. M. (2013). Direct Effect of Service Quality Dimension on Customer Satisfaction and Customer Loyalty in Nigerian Islamic Bank. Management. Vol. 3 (1) 611. doi https//doi.org/10.5923/j.mm.20130301.02.Dahari Z. Abduh M. & Fam K. S. (2015). Measuring Service Quality in Islamic Banking ImportancePerformance Analysis Approach. Asian Journal of Business Research. Vol. 5 (1) 1528. doi https//doi.org/10.14707.ajbr.150008.http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 386Faisal M. Shabbir M. S. S. Javed S. & Shabbir M. F. (2016). Measuring Service Quality and Customer Satisfaction in Pakistan Evidence Based on Carter Model.  International  Business  Management. Vol.  10  (20)  50115016.  doi https//doi.org/10.3923/ibm.2016.5011.5016.Frost J. (2013). Regression Analysis How Do I Interpret Rsquared and Asses the GodnessofFit.  Retrieved  from  http//blog.minitab.com/blog/adventuresinstatistics2/regressionanalysishowdoiinterpretrsquaredandassessthegoodnessoffitGhozali I. (2013). Aplikasi Multivariate dengan Program IBM SPSS21 Update PLS Regresi  (Multivariate  Application  with  IBM  SPSS21  Program  Update  PLS Regression). Semarang BP Universitas Diponegoro.Gnanmote A. K. (2017). Fintech Revolution in Banking Leading the Way to Digital. Perspective. Bengaluru India Infosys Limited.Hammoud  N.  &  Bittar  M.  (2016).  Measuring  the  Quality  of  Islamic  Banks    Services and Its Impact on Customers    Satisfaction  A Survey Study on the Islamic Banks    Customers in Lattakia Syria. International Journal of Business Economics and Management. Vol. 3 (1) 117.Hamzah N. Ishak N. M. & Nor N. I. M. (2015). Customer Satisfactions on Islamic Banking System. Journal of Economics Business and Management. Vol. 3 (1) 140144.Hardianto  D.  S.  & Wulandari  P.  (2016).  Islamic  Bank  vs  Conventional  Bank Intermediation  Fee  Based  Service  Activity  and  Efficiency  International Journal of Islamic and Middle Eastern Finance and Management. Vol. 9 (2) 296311. doi https//doi.org/10.1108/IMEFM0120150003.Hasan  S.  B.  M.  (2017).  Islamic  Fintech       A  Threath  for  Islamic  Banks  or  an Opportunity? Ethis Crowd Real Estate Islamic Crowfunding & Halal Property Investment December 28 2017.Hassan M.T. Ahmed B. Ahmed S. Habib U. Riaz S. Maqbool N. & Anwar A. (2012). Measuring Customers Loyalty of Islamic Banking in Bahawalpur Region. International Journal of Learning and Development. Vol. 2 (2) 101111. doi https//doi.org/10.5296/ijld.v2i2.1593.Hidayat R. Akhmad S. & Machmud. (2015). Effects of Service Quality Customer Trust and Customer Religious Commitment on Customer Satisfaction and Loyalty  of  Islamic  Banks  in  East  Java.  AlIqtishad  Jurnal  Ilmu  Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics). Vol. 7 (2) 151164. doi https//doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v7i2.1681.AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135  387Hooy C. W. & Chan S. G. (2014). Technological Innovation inServices and the Efficiency of Malaysia Commercial Banks Jurnal Ekonomi Malaysia. Vol. 48 (2) 111125.Indriantoro N. & Supomo B. (2001). Metodologi Penelitian Bisnis untuk Akuntansi dan Manajemen (Business Research Method for Accountancy and Management). Yogyakarta BPFE Yogyakarta.Kishada Z. M. E. & Wahab N. A. (2013). Factors Affecting Customer Loyalty in Islamic Banking Evidence from Malaysian Banks. International  Journal  of Business and Social Science. Vol. 4 (7) 264273.Lajuni N. Wong W. P. M. Yacob Y. Ting H. & Jausin A. (2017). Intention to Use Islamic banking Products and Its Determinants. International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues. Vol. 7 (1) 329333.Maholtra K.N. (2009). Riset Pemasaran (Market Research). Jakarta PT. Indeks.Mihelis G. Grigoroudis E. Siskos Y. Politis Y. Malandrakis Y. (2001). Customer Satisfaction  Measurement  in  the  Private  Bank  Sector.  European  Journal  of Operational Research. Vol. 130 (2) 347   360.Oliver R. L. (1999). Whence Consumer Loyalty? Journal of Marketing. Vol. 63 3344. doi https//doi.org/10.2307/1252099.Othman A. & Owen L. (2001a). Developing an Instrument to Measure Customer Service  Quality  (SQ)  in  Islamic  Banking.  International  Journal  of  Islamic Financial Services. Vol. 3 (1) 126.Othman  A.  &  Owen  L.  (2001b).  Adopting  and  Measuring  Customer  Service Quality  in  Islamic  Banks  A  Case  Study  in  Kuwait  Finance  House. International Journal of Islamic Financial Services. Vol. 3 (2) 111130. Parasuraman  A.  et.al.  (1988).  SERVQUAL  A  Multipleitem  Scale  for  Measuring Consumer Perceptions of Service Quality. Journal of Retailing. Vol. 64 1240. Parasuraman A. Zeithaml V. A. Berry L L. (1985). A Conceptual Model of Service Quality and Its Implications for Future Research. Journal of Marketing. Vol. 49 (4) 4150. Rai A. K. & Srivastava. M. (2012). Customer Loyalty Attributes A Perspective. Management Review. Vol. 22 4976.Riduwan E. & Kuncoro A. (2008). Cara Menggunakan dan Memakai Analisis Jalur (A Guidance to Use Path Analysis). Bandung Alfabeta.Thaker H. M. T. Khaliq A. & Thaker M. A. M. T. (2016). Evaluating the Service Quality  of  Malaysian  Islamic  Banks  An  ImportancePerformance  Analysis Approach. International Journal of Business and Information. Vol. 11 (3) 341364.http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135Muniaty Aisyah. Islamic Banks Service Quality 388Wahyuni S. & Fitriani N. (2017). Brand Religiosity Aura and Brand Loyalty in Indonesia Islamic Banking. Journal of Islamic Marketing. Vol. 8 (3) 361372.Weon H. J. Eui H. W. & Sik K. Y. (2010). The Study of LocationStrategy for Bank through theAnalysisof Interregional Financial Transaction Network International Journal of u and e Service Science and Technology. Vol. 3 (1) 2130.Zamir I. (2016). Islamic Finance Seminar for Senior Bank Supervisors from Emerging Economies. Washington DC USA October 1721 2016.Zeithaml V. A. Berry L. L. &Parasuraman A. (1996). The Behavioral Consequences of  Service  Quality.  Journal  of  Marketing.  Vol.  60  3146.  doi  https//doi.org/10.2307/1251929.AlIqtishad Jurnal Ilmu Ekonomi Syariah (Journal of Islamic Economics) Vol. 10 (2) July 2018http//journal.uinjkt.ac.id/index.php/iqtishadDOI http//dx.doi.org/10.15408/aiq.v10i2.7135 '