b'herein fileR3 ReportsCan Blockchain Make Trade Finance More Inclusive?Alisa DiCaprioBenjamin Jessel1 ContentsR3 Research aims to deliver concise reports on DLT in business language for decisionmakers and DLT hobbyists alike.  The reports are written by experts in the space and are rooted in practical experience with the technology.Visit R3   s Wiki here. Visit R3\'s Public Research here.Introduction 11.2. Today   s trade finance network structureenables persistent shortfalls 23. Digitalization improves efficiency blockchainunlocks trust without centralization 34. Does blockchain technology have featuresthat can narrow trade finance gaps? 45. Conclusion 9Disclaimer These white papers are for general information and  discussion only and shall not be copied or redistributed outside R3 membership. They are not a full analysis of the matters presented are meant solely to provide general guidance and may not be relied upon as professional advice and do not purport to represent the views of R3 Holdco LLC its affiliates or any of the institutions that contributed to these white papers.  The information in these white papers was posted with reasonable care and attention.  However it is possible that some information in these white papers is incomplete incorrect or inapplicable to particular circumstances or conditions. The contributors do not accept liability for direct or indirect losses resulting from using relying or acting upon information in these white papers.  These views are those of  R3 Research  and associated authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of R3 or R3   s consortium members.  Can Blockchain Make Trade Finance More Inclusive?Alisa DiCaprio Benjamin JesselMarch 20 2018AbstractThere is little doubt that blockchain technology will change global trade. The questionhowever is how it will impact some of the most intractable issues in trade    nance. Last yearU.S.$15.5 trillion of merchandise exports were transported around the world. Up to 80% ofglobal commerce requires trade    nance to provide liquidity and risk mitigation. Howeverine   ciencies in trade    nance today mean that many applications go unfunded. This U.S.$1.5trillion trade    nance gap is widest in emerging markets and for small and mediumsized enterprises. E   orts to address these shortfalls have gained limited traction due to the decentralizednature of trade. In this paper we review the design of enterprise blockchains to explore howchanging the architecture of trade    nance could impact the drivers of trade    nance gaps. Bygrounding our analysis in the technical architecture of a live enterprise blockchain platformwe aim to provide a tangible discussion around the technology. Applying blockchain technology to trade    nance     regardless of the top of stack application     will directly impact the    owof information compliance challenges and pro   tability in ways that can contribute to a moreinclusive trade    nance structure.1IntroductionTrade    nance reduces risk in the process of trade. Given the number of parties involvedintermediation enables buyers and sellers to transact more e   ciently across borders currencies andlanguages. The transaction volumes are huge. In 2017 U.S.$15.5 trillion of merchandise exportswere transported around the world across sea air rail and road (World Trade Organization 2017).Up to 80% of this global trade requires    nancing.However the same characteristics that make trade    nance safer also introduce friction andin   exibility. This has resulted in two persistent problems in the sector. First trade    nance isnot easily accessible to everyone and in every region. Shortfalls in supply have persistently pooledin frontier markets and among small and mediumsized enterprises (SMEs). This has directimplications for the ability of emerging markets to capture the bene   ts of trade driven growth.Scalability is a second problem. Many believed that digitalization was the answer to the lackof visibility low pro   t margins and    know your customer    (KYC) concerns that drive shortfalls.While digitalization has changed the way individual entities in trade    nance process informationthese bene   ts have not scaled globally into a connected network. If each node in the trade    nancenetwork maintains its own proprietary source of information     as it does today     digital documentation needs to be checked and reentered at every step of the process. Having many di   erentcentralized systems globally create localized data centers that do not interoperate with a broadernetwork.1 Digital improvements to nondigital infrastructure can only go so far. A fundamental reorganization of the system is required to impactfully change trade    nance enough to address theshortfalls and gaps.Over the past two years we have witnessed a wholly di   erent solution emerge. Blockchaintechnology presents an open technology layer that enables programs to connect and scale 1. Thedecentralized architecture of a blockchain can serve as a better foundation for interoperation alonga global and intermediated process like trade    nance.Trade    nance is inherently decentralized; trying to match centralized architecture to this decentralized process has led to the siloes and problems we face today. By changing the structuralfoundation of trade    nance the technology presents an opportunity to narrow gaps in an unconventional way. Having a decentralized yet trusted and secure record of information shared betweenrelevant parties can reduce frictions while maintaining the e   ciencies of intermediated trade.In this paper we take a design approach to explore whether blockchain could rearchitect trade   nance to make it more inclusive. This approach is unusual in that we map the reasons for trade   nance gaps directly to the features of the technology itself. Our conclusions are thus independentof the speci   c use case. They apply equally to letters of credit or open account or trade creditinsurance. They are applicable in jurisdictions from Brazil to Thailand.While public blockchains like Bitcoin are the most familiar to the casual reader we focus in thispaper on enterprise blockchains. The reason is that private permissioned blockchains built withthe requirements of companies in mind are most appropriate for the particular characteristics oftrade    nance. Trade    nance is highly regulated crossjurisdictional and involves multiple partiescon   dentially exchanging information. In this paper we will outline advantages that are generalto most enterprise blockchain systems such as IBM   s Fabric and Ethereumbased forks 2 whilealso mentioning features particular to R3   s Corda 3.As blockchain technology moves from proofofconcept to live pilot and beyond in 2018 we cano   er insight into whether the technology will ultimately narrow trade    nance gaps. We explorethe impact of blockchains on three fundamental causes of trade    nance gaps compliance costspro   t and information. Our objective is to show that the bene   ts of blockchain technology intrade    nance can extend beyond driving operational e   ciency to actually narrowing market gapsin frontier markets and among SMEs.2 Today   s trade    nance network structure enables persistentshortfallsTrade is conducted through either bankintermediated riskmitigating instruments such asletters of credit or directly between buyers through open account. While most global trade    owsare covered by open account companies in Asia and the Middle East are heavy users of lettersof credit with 77% of export letters of credit originating in Asia alone. Risk parameters varydepending on when    nance and/or risk mitigation is provided and di   er between preshipmentand postshipment    nance.Ine   ciencies in trade    nance means that nearly U.S.$1.5 trillion of demand for trade    nanceis rejected by banks (Asian Development Bank 2017). The consequence in many cases is thatthose trades do not happen. A practical example in a survey of 1336    rms respondents reportthat in 60% of cases when their application for trade    nance is rejected they fail to execute thetransaction (Asian Development Bank 2017).2.1 Trade    nance data is centralized to maintain securityIn trade    nance today each party to a transaction maintains their own account. These arerepeatedly shared checked for discrepancies veri   ed and updated. This process introduces three1All blockchains are distributed ledgers but not all distributed ledgers "batch" information together into a chain ofblocks. For simplicity the term blockchain and distributed ledger technology (DLT) are used interchangeably inthis paper.2An enterprise fork is an adaptation of a public cryptocurrency codebase to make the technology more suitable forcompanies.3Corda is unique among enterprise blockchains in that it operates a pointtopoint transaction model. This meansthat only participants involved in a given transaction or exchange of data are privy to the data involved in thosetransaction. In our example each node transacts on behalf of their clients and shares only the information that isneeded to complete the transaction.2 structural features that contribute to gaps. First the cost of verifying and checking is high. This isbecause each individual entity in the transaction needs to ensure that the documents they receiveare compliant with regulatory requirements. Entities also need to con   rm the information thatthey expect to see about the transaction     are the goods in the purchase order the same as thegoods in the invoice?Second there is a dependence on correspondent banking limits. Banktobank (correspondent)relationships are central to the current trade    nance architecture. Yet thousands of correspondentrelations have been severed over the past few years due to cost and regulatory factors. Thisdependence on correspondent banking networks limits the    exibility of trade    nance.Local or community banks which are most likely to have banking relationships with SMEsmay not have the necessary correspondent relationships to facilitate an international trade transaction. One global bank reports that the cost of doing due diligence on a bank was of the orderof U.S.$75000 in 2015. When global banks began shedding correspondent relationships in recentyears it was mainly emerging markets that were cut o    (International Monetary Fund 2016).Finally the use of the cloud while increasing is limited in transaction banking. Deployingnew digital solutions in banks is slow due to the need to get security approvals. Historically thestandard has been ringfencing data and not allowing any integration. However given recent highpro   le hacks it is clear that centralized data stores are vulnerable regardless of how carefully thedata is fenced in.2.2 Today   s architecture is characterized by gaps in emerging marketsand SMEsThe way data is shared in trade today exacerbates the inherent challenges of emerging markets.In 2017 the ADB estimated a global trade    nance gap of U.S.$1.5 trillion dollars. Furthermore40% of global unmet demand for trade    nance was pooled in Asia Paci   c and Africa.However the problem is about more than geography. SMEs in every jurisdiction face shortfallsin access to trade    nance. Banks report that 74% of their rejections go to SMEs. These companiesworldwide have reported the lack of trade    nance as one of the major constraints to their businesses.Globally they are impacted by the higher cost of screening and higher interest rates. Creditconstraints on smaller exporters are higher than those faced by larger    rms to the point of reducingthe range of destinations for business or stopping the SME from exporting altogether.3 Digitalization improves e   ciency blockchain unlocks trustwithout centralizationWhen banks were surveyed on their reasons for rejecting trade    nance proposals their responsesfell into three main categories lack of information low pro   t and KYC concerns (Figure 2). Thesingle undercurrent to all of these causes is lack of visibility into the trade or the client leading toa    perceived risk    that is higher than what the bank is willing to accept.Figure 1 Proposed and rejected trade    nance transactions (by    rm size 2017)Source Asian Development Bank3 Figure 2 Reasons banks reject trade    nance applications (% of rejections)Source Asian Development BankDigitalization has made important inroads in all of these areas. Regtech seeks to automateKYC reporting Fintech solutions create new sources of information with which to evaluate    rmsand digitalization initiatives have focused on reducing the cost of trade    nance. Each of these hasimportant potential implications for inclusion by disrupting pieces of the trade    nance process.Even as digitalization has sought to address parts of the problem it has also exacerbatedits causes in other ways. As banks have implemented new digital solutions there has been anexplosion of destination platforms. That is the platforms do not interoperate with each other.Digital solutions work as long as all parts of the trade are on the same platform.In globalcommerce where a single trade may involve 20 entities 100 pages of documentation and 5000data    eld interactions (Boston Consulting Group 2017) siloed digital solutions make problemsworse.Enterprise blockchains aim to resolve these di   culties with interoperation. There are two features of enterprise blockchains that allow them to retain the bene   ts of decentralized systems whileaddressing the shortcomings of public blockchains for this use case. Enterprise implementationsof blockchain technology are better able to meet the data privacy requirements of internationaltrade as they avoid public broadcast of all information to all parties (Hearn 2016) 4. Furtherdepending on the architecture they can address the scalability limitations of public blockchainsystems (Buterin 2016).4 Does blockchain technology have features that can narrowtrade    nance gaps?If todays trade    nance architecture enables the persistence of gaps does this mean that atechnology that promised to rearchitect trade    nance will narrow them? There is a lot riding onthis contention and some blockchain applications have focused speci   cally on this area. While wehope that the trade    nance applications built on blockchain platforms will accomplish this goalthe sheer scope of di   erent applications makes it di   cult to evaluate the potential disruption ofeach claim.In this section instead of looking at the promise of blockchain applications which is enormouswe look at the mechanics of the technology. Does the technology itself have or enable features thataddress some of the reasons for trade    nance gaps?4No risk department would agree to having each node contain identical copies of the entire transaction history.Even though there is some technology being introducted in public blockchain systems to address privacy concernsthe technology can be too immature for enterprises. In addition often enterprises do not want information sharedwith other parties even if that information is    encrypted.   4 By grounding our analysis in the technical architecture of a live enterprise distributed ledgerplatform we aim to provide a tangible discussion around the technology of blockchain. Some ofthese bene   ts are inherently enabled by the blockchain platform itself while others allow producersof applications to drive the bene   ts. We cover the three drivers from Figure 2 low pro   tabilityregulatory concerns and information.4.1 Low pro   tabilityLow pro   tability comes from two sources the bank   s cost of processing a transaction andthe expected revenue. SMEs will naturally provide a smaller expected pro   t as their transactionvolume and frequency may be expected to be low.The cost and time to process a trade transaction can be signi   cant due to the variety of actorsand steps that are involved. Much of the cost arises from delays friction and additional e   ortneeded to handle trade data. This is underpinned by the fact that trade    nance is a linear processthat is heavily reliant on paper documents. The paper documentation is carried from port to portalong with the cargo checked signed faxed to the various parties including banks with very littlevisibility of the whole process by any single participant. Manual checking is time consuming andcan be error prone. Bottlenecks also occur frequently because no party has overall control over orvisibility into the full process.Delays can have real cost implications. Take demurrage a payable charge to the owner of achartered ship in respect of failure to load or discharge the ship within the agreed time. Thesecharges can add up to U.S.$150 per container per day (Czajkowski) which may not seem like muchbut when applied to a whole vessel such as a Panamax    eet ship the cost can reach U.S.$750000per day of delay.These costs are further exacerbated by distant markets banks which lack direct correspondentrelationships and small    rms. For these entities the time needed to execute a transaction theprevalence of errors and amendments and the need to verify all parts of the transaction due tothe need to establish provenance of paperwork 5 contribute to low pro   tability.There are several technical elements built into enterprise blockchains that impact the costand time of processing. Steps are eliminated when relevant parties maintain the same version ofthe truth. Having automatable processes will speed up steps that cannot be eliminated. Bothoracles and signatures (or multiple signatures) from trusted parties can trigger other events on ablockchain removing delays for information dependencies.Blockchain features that can address pro   tability are (1) single truth layer (2) automatableprocesses (3) oracles and (4) signatures multiple signatures (multisig).All of these features lead to the elimination of con   rmation steps as parties can trust that theinformation that they see is the same as other parties.One of the major cost multipliers in trade transactions is the passing back and forth of thesame documents multiple times. For example there are typically 19 steps (without amendment)in a letter of credit. By having a single truth layer we can potentially eliminate seven of thesesteps immediately.6As one example Figure 3 illustrates the sellers screen in an onledger letter of credit transactions. This is a snapshot of the key data forms that are included.7In any transaction on the blockchain there is a single source of veri   ed data that is immutable.As a result all parties can have con   dence that the information on the screen is veri   ed and isthe same as what their counterparties see on their screens. The data is accurate and reliable fromthe beginning.Having a single source of truth shared between relevant parties reduces costs that are due toerrors associated with repetitive veri   cation. This will shorten the time to    nancing because itreduces information    oat (the time until information is available) and increases real time visibilityof trade. Faster information transfer with fewer errors will reduce the additional costs associatedwith riskier trades.A second way that blockchain can address pro   tability is by automating some steps that currently have a long lag time. On Corda    ows enable coordination from di   erent nodes to trigger5Default is not the reason that cost and pro   t is a problem. Default rates for trade    nance are below 1% andrecovery even then is on the order of 80% (ICC trade register). The problem of cost and pro   tability is related topaperwork and veri   cation and checking.6Author   s calculations using a pilot version of a Letter of Credit on Corda.7Screenshots are from the Corda Letter of Credit demo.5 Figure 3 Status of di   erent orders shared with relevant partiesSource R3   transactions    or updates to shared states between parties that are automated. Figure 4 illustratesthe    ows in a letter of credit trade lifecycle.Oracles and third party signatures are two examples of inputs to a blockchain that can triggeran automated process. An oracle is an agent on the blockchain that provides information to theparticipants of one or more business networks. They source information from real world eventsthird party data providers or other blockchain activities. An oracle can push information to abusiness network either regularly or upon request and is not party to a trade.Oracles are meant to provide facts to business network participants. Figure 4 shows an examplewhere an electronic bill of lading (eBL) provider acts as an oracle in a trade transaction. In a tradetransaction ownership of the goods changes throughout the process. The document of title    in this case represented by an eBL     allows the bearer to take ownership. After the goods areready to ship the shipper requests the carrier to draft a bill of lading. The shipper exchangesthe goods for the eBL from the carrier. The shipper then presents the eBL to the advising bankin ful   lment of the documentary submission requirements of a letter of credit. Since each eBL isassociated with a unique title registry record  which is maintained by the oracle  the transfer oftitle from the shipper to the advising bank only occurs after querying the oracle to get con   rmationof the registry record number. This also introduces additional visibility into who owns the goodsthroughout the process.Figure 4 Flows between nodes on corda along trade    nance lifecycleSource R3A trusted third party may also provide signatures to a blockchain. For example DHL maysend a pay out upon signature when goods have arrived at a certain port triggering the nextprocess automatically removing frictions. Once the physical cargo has been checked and the datainput into the system an automated contract could instantaneously release the funds from theseller   s bank to the buyer   s bank. This is one example of a smart contract and a selfexecutingtransaction. This could signi   cantly reduce the delay between the checking of the cargo and the   nal release of funds.6 Figure 5. Bill of lading timeline with title transfer4.2 Lack of information (risk management)Source R3A second driver of trade    nance rejections is a lack of reliable information. This makes itdi   cult for stakeholders to accurately measure risk a problem that is compounded for SMEs.Where risk is the result of information asymmetries blockchain can improve risk management.It could enable us to answer questions like can this SME perform is it capable of delivering qualitygoods/service in the timeframe stipulated in a contract will it remain solvent for the duration ofits obligations?Recording transactions on a blockchain leads to a treasure of metadata from which    nancialinstitutions could answer SME performance risk related questions reliably and e   ciently. If alltransactions in an SMEs life are captured step by step through a blockchain that informationcould be organized to address a root cause of SME    nance market gaps.In addition the ability to identify the legal entity of a participant in a transaction is fundamentalto e   cient trade    nance. It can act as an organizational anchor     or a master key     from whichall other information can be hung. Corda uses X.500 distinguished names to identify participants.To further improve transparency about network participants many solutions then link to    legalentity identi   ers    (LEI).An LEI is a 20 digit alpha numeric code. It is connected to key reference information thatallows for the unique identi   cation of legal entities participating in    nancial transactions. The LEIveri   es on an annual basis (i) who   s who; (ii) who owns whom; (iii) who owns what. The bodyresponsible for administering the LEI system is itself regulated by over 70 central banks aroundthe world.An important bene   t of being able to organize data around entities with canonical identi   ersthat are used universally across the globe is that it becomes possible to develop a map thatcharts out the history of all transactions performed across all participants. This becomes a verypowerful tool for reducing fraud because all the parties involved in a trade are known and havebeen validated.4.3 Compliance (KYC concerns)Regulatory oversight plays a critical role in the functioning of the global    nancial system. Overtime both the diversity of regulations and the size of sanctions    nes have increased.This relates to the third major driver of rejections for trade    nance proposals     KYC andmoney laundering concerns. The cost and complexity of regulatory compliance play an importantrole in transactions costs. The problem for trade    nance is that 25% of rejections are based onKYC concerns.Enterprise blockchains can address the uncertainty related to compliance via three features.These include live information sharing through a regulator node active regulation by requiringattestations by third parties that have done KYC checks and more data for retrospective analysisthat may facilitate more e   ective regulation.Beyond blockchain   s ability to enhance the reliability and e   ciency of conducting KYC andantimoney laundering due diligence the technology can also address two related regulatory issues.The    rst is uncertainty by regulators. Because regulators only see a trade after it has occurredtheir lack of insight shifts the burden of vigilance onto banks. The second is uncertainty by banks.7 The regulatory environment is complex and not harmonized. Each bank needs to satisfy di   erentlevels of regulation.8Blockchain features that can address regulatory compliance are (1) notary functionality (2)regulator nodes (3) attestations and (4) audit trail.4.3.1 Notary agreement protects against doubleinvoicing of the same stateDoubleinvoicing is a common concern in trade    nance. It can occur in error where a transactionis mistakenly counted twice or in a fraudulent setting where a malicious actor intends to game theprocess. This requires    nancial institutions to spend time to validate all the transactions to preventinstances of doubleinvoicing. Standard Chartered for example lost almost U.S.$200 million froma fraud involving counterfeited paperwork where di   erent banks and trading houses were holdingseparate titles for the same metal at China   s Qingdao port in 2014.Blockchain technology has the potential to address some of these fraudulent transactions. WithCorda a notary ensures uniqueness of an invoice or payment. This has the potential to makeimportant inroads on the doublespending problem. Because a transaction is represented as aparticular state it is mathematically impossible to reuse the same state more than once. That isif a particular invoice has a certain number the same asset literally cannot be sent to two banks    it can only be used once and the notaries will enforce this. While this does not protect againstpeople creating two separate invoices with di   erent numbers banks can ensure that a certain stateis only used once if they are on the same application.4.3.2 Live regulator oversight of particular identities or transactionsAs regulations around trade    nance continue to grow the sanctions for violations have alsogrown. According to FinCen data the number of suspicious activity reports grew exponentiallyfrom 1990 to 2013.In addition market participants have to generate compliance reports on aregular basis for submission to the relevant regulators. Much of this work is still manual whichleads to high overhead costs.Enterprise level blockchains enable the addition of a speci   c type of entity into the transactionthat we refer to as a regulator node. This regulator node can be incorporated into the networkand it enables regulators to monitor transactions that occur on a realtime basis but does notgive them the ability to change the transaction. This can reduce the need for manual regulatoryreporting and can signi   cantly reduce costs.Figure 6. Corda    ow with a regulator nodeSource R3Blockchain addresses the cost and complexity of regulatory compliance in an unusual way.While existing regtech solutions have focused on simplifying KYC this is only one part of a8In a recent informal survey of global banks repondents each had a di   erent process for KYC in a supply chain   nance transaction.8 complex problem. By allowing regulators to have direct insight into transactions the reportingprocess can become less burdensome by becoming incorporated into the transaction itself.4.3.3 Signatures by third parties that have performed due diligenceOn a blockchain network trusted third parties can attest that a particular party is not nefarious.Onboarding of a new corporation or entity could involve the signature of an entity that has donedue diligence.4.3.4 More data can allow better retrospective analysis to make future projectionsof criminal activityImmutability of data refers to the fact that a state cannot be changed or modi   ed after it hasbeen created. This creates a clear audit trail into the transaction as historic states are stored andcan be accessed. It will be impossible to tamper with data and data integrity can be maintainedat all times.5 ConclusionTrade    nance gaps will not be resolved until trade    nance changes. This kind of thinking isnot new. But the technology to make it happen is. Blockchain will impact how trade    nance isdone. It will become safer faster and more secure as banks and corporates move trade onto theblockchain.Does this mean that blockchain will solve the trade    nance gap? Not alone. As it spreadsits hard coded features will improve the potential for trade    nance to be more inclusive andavailable. To take full advantage of the bene   ts that blockchain has to o   er in trade    nance weneed to consider three questions while designing top of stack applications can outside providerseasily contribute data does it follow or reuse existing standards and contracts and will it improveinformation and data    ow.2018 is the year that proofofconcepts are moving into pilots and production. As we havelearned during the design phase the problems in trade    nance are going to be much harder tosolve than they look on the surface. As trade continues to evolve it has become increasingly urgentthat    nancial institutions are equipped to deliver not only the types of    nancing that are neededtoday but the types of    nancing that will be needed tomorrow.9 ReferencesAsian Development Bank (2017). Trade Finance Gaps Growth and Jobs Survey. ADB BriefNo. 83. Retrieved from https//www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/359631/adbbriefs83.pdf.Boston Consulting Group & SWIFT (2017). Digital innovation in trade    nance have wereached a tipping point?. Boston Consulting Group and SWIFT focus whitepaper. Retrieved fromhttps//www.swift.com/newsevents/news/digitalinnovationintradefinancehavewereachedatippingpoint_.Buterin V. (2016). Ethereum platform review. R3 Research Papers. Retrieved from R3Internal Wiki.Czajkowski A. Demurrage Detention Per Diem. . . Oh My! 6 Tips to Avoid AdditionalCharges. Shapiro. Retrieved from https//www.shapiro.com/demurragedetentionperdiemohmy6tipstoavoidadditionalcharges/.Hearn M. (2016). Corda Technical Whitepaper. Retrieved from https//docs.corda.net/_static/cordatechnicalwhitepaper.pdf.International Monetary Fund (2016). The Withdrawal of Correspondent Banking RelationIMF Sta    Discussion Notes SDN/16/06. Retrieved fromships A Case for Policy Action.https//www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/sdn/2016/sdn1606.pdf.World Trade Organization (2017). World trade and GDP growth in 2016 and early 2017.World Trade Statistical Review Chapter 3. Retrieved from https//www.wto.org/english/res_e/statis_e/wts2017_e/WTO_Chapter_03_e.pdf.10 Is  an  enterprise ledger using  distributed build services infrastructure.  the  next  generation  of software technology firm to financial It six financial continents. institutions  and R3\'s  member  base  comprises  over  80 regulators global largest on is collaborative  consortium  of in financial  markets. Consortium  members  have access to insights from projects research  regulatory  outreach and professional services.the its  kind Our team is made  of financial industry veterans technologists and  new  tech  entrepreneurs bringing together  expertise from financial markets  cryptography  and digital currencies. electronic Is  an  open financial  grade  distributed records  manages and institutions    perfect  synchrony  with  their  peers. financial  agreements source ledger  that executes in is the  only  distributed ledger Corda platform  designed  from  the  ground  up to  address  the  specific  needs  of  the financial  services is  the year  of  close result  of  over  a collaboration  between  R3  and its consortium  of  over  80  of  the  world   s leading  banks  and  financial  institutions.industry  and  '