b'herein fileResearch on SME Financing and Its Development   Yuanjian Jiao 1 1 Tianjin University Tianjin 300072 Keywords SME; Financing; Development Study   Abstract The coexistence of SME financing difficulties and private lending difficulties is a unique phenomenon  in  the  field  of  investment  and  financing  in  China.  Based  on  the  perspective  of institutional arrangements this paper uses logical analysis to analyze the root causes of this double dilemma. The research results show that financial repression is the direct cause of the dual dilemma of  China\'s  SMEs  financing  and  private  lending  and  the  existing  economic  system  with  public ownership as the main body has many defects in its institutional origin. To fundamentally solve the double  dilemma  it  is  necessary  to  start  from  the  aspects  of  changing  ideology  reforming publicowned enterprises and reforming the political system. 1. Introduction Since the reform and opening up China\'s SMEs have experienced rapid development playing an increasingly  important  role  in  prospering  the  economy  increasing  employment  promoting innovation and maintaining stability. At present there are more than 10 million small and medium enterprises  (SMEs)  registered  in  the  industrial  and  commercial  sector  in  China  accounting  for 99.3% of the total number of enterprises in China creating 80% of jobs for the urban labor force. Statistics show that the total production value of China\'s SMEs accounts for 60% of the country\'s total output value. Imports and exports account for 70% of the country\'s total import and export volume  and  the  total  amount  of  taxes  paid  on  the  country  accounts  for  more  than  50%  of  the country\'s  total  tax  revenue.  At  the  same  time  SMEs  have  the  advantages  of  rapid  response  and flexible  mechanisms  and  they  are  playing  an  increasingly  prominent  role  in  technological advancement and innovation. Since the reform and opening up about 65% of patents were invented by SMEs more than 75% of technological innovations were completed by SMEs and more than 80% of new products were developed by SMEs. In addition SMEs have a flexible  management system  a  wide  range  of  business  operations  and  rich  business  projects.  They  have  the characteristics of low investment quick results and strong adaptability. When the economic cycle fluctuates they can take advantage of \\xe2\\x80\\x9cturning small boats and turning around better\\xe2\\x80\\x9d and make timely changes. Quickly adapt to changes in economic structure and market demand. 2. Many Difficulties in the Operation of SMEs in China Information asymmetry is the root cause of the financing problems of small and mediumsized enterprises  and  the  uncertainty  of  business  prospects  is  an  important  reason  for  the  financing difficulties of SMEs. Many small and mediumsized enterprises are in a competitive industry have low market entry thresholds are not technically monopolized have poor antirisk capabilities and are most vulnerable to the impact and impact of economic cycle fluctuations leading to unstable business operations. These factors have increased the Concerned and unwilling to lend to SMEs. Under  the  current  economic  and  financial  situation  at  home  and  abroad  some  small  and mediumsized enterprises in our country have experienced difficulties in their operations and they have  been  concentrated  and  prominent  in  some  regions.  (1)  Rapidly  rising  prices  of  production factors in recent years especially since 2007 the purchase price index of raw materials fuels and power has risen all the way although the exfactory price index of industrial products and the retail price index of goods have also risen but have fallen below the former. The rise in the prices of energy and raw materials has caused great difficulties for the SMEs operating downstream of the 2018 5th International Conference on Business Economics and Management (BUSEM 2018)Copyright \\xc2\\xa9 (2018) Francis Academic Press UK231\\x0cindustrial  chain.  The  increase  in  labor  wages  has  increased  the  operational  difficulties  of laborintensive enterprises. The promulgation and implementation of the new "Labor Contract Law" in  2008  has  better  protected  the  legitimate  rights  and  interests  of  workers  but  also  increased  the operating costs of laborintensive enterprises. Some studies have estimated that the implementation of the new "Labor Contract Law" will increase the cost of labor by 30% to 40%. In addition with the improvement of social living standards and rising prices the requirements for workers to raise wages have become more and more urgent and have been highlighted in the improvement of labor wage  standards.  (2)  The  international  financial  crisis  has  brought  a  lot  of  difficulties  to  the development  of  exportoriented  SMEs  affected  by  the  international  financial  crisis.  The  lack  of external demand has led to fewer international orders for SMEs especially exportoriented SMEs lower  product  prices  increased  inventories  and  capital  turnover.  Difficulties  and  even  funding problems. (III) Changes in RMB appreciation and export tax rebate policies have reduced the profit margins  of  laborintensive  lowvalueadded  SMEs  without  market  pricing  power.  With  the continuous  improvement  of  China\\xe2\\x80\\x99s  overall  national  strength  the  RMB  will  inevitably  enter  an appreciation  channel.  The  appreciation  of  the  renminbi  led  to  a  significant  decline  in  the profitability of small and mediumsized enterprises that competed on the international market by relying  on  low  prices  and  some  companies  were  even  eliminated.  In  2007  China  extensively adjusted the tax rebate policy for export products eliminated 553 export tax rebates for products with high energy consumption high pollution and resources and reduced the export tax rebate rate for  2268  products  that  are  likely  to  cause  trade  friction.  If  the  valueadded  products  of  the enterprises involved are low and the industrial transformation is slow it will lead to a decline in profit margins and even closure. According to some surveys among the companies that accounted for more than 50% of the sales in the international market \\xe2\\x80\\x9cexchange rate appreciation and export tax rebate rate reduction\\xe2\\x80\\x9d ranked first and second in the major difficulties facing the company. (4) Enforcement  of  environmental  protection  policies  has  increased  the  operating  costs  of  small  and mediumsized enterprises. Through strengthening environmental governance and safe production the  government  has  internalized  the  production  and  operating  costs  that  enterprises  should  have undertaken  but  did  not  assume  and  restored  the  true  costs  of  production  and  operation  of enterprises. This will inevitably result in Squeezing its high cost of deformity at low cost. 3. Internal and External factors that Restrict the Financing of SMEs Most SMEs are in a competitive industry with low technical content poor antirisk capability high  business  risk  shortterm  business  operations  (usually  only  34  years)  and  high  levels  of downturn or potential for bankruptcy. According to a report released by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology in December 2009 according to the score of 10 points the average health index of Chinese SMEs is 6.57 points which is in a subhealth state and its internal management level is also in the middle and lower reaches. The ephemeral nature of the life cycle of SMEs and the  uncertainty  of  their  operations  have  to  some  extent  curbed  the  willingness  of  financial institutions to lend. The scale and credit level of SMEs are low and restrict their financing capabilities. In 2009 the People\'s Bank of China surveyed a number of small and mediumsized enterprises in a concentrated area indicating  that  over  50%  of  SME  financial  management  systems  were  not  sound  and  over 60%  of  SMEs  had  credit  ratings  below  3B  or  3B  which  severely  weakened  their  financing capabilities. The lack of assets available for collateral security results in high financing costs. Due to banks\' preference  for  SMEs\'  fixed  assets  they  are  generally  reluctant  to  accept  SMEs\'  liquid  assets.  In SMEs\' asset structure the proportion of fixed assets is small especially hightech enterprises and intangible assets account for a relatively high proportion. There is no real property that can be used as collateral and it is difficult to meet the requirements for lending by financial institutions. Even if financial institutions agree to lend in order to cover high risks the interest rate of lending is also much higher than that of large corporate loans. In addition since the period for most guaranteed loans is within half a year and not more than 232\\x0cone  year  credit  guarantee  agencies  basically  only  guarantee  shortterm  liquidity  rather  than longterm loans such as equipment investment which increases the difficulty of financing for SMEs. The complicated guarantee procedures and high guarantee fees increase the financing cost of the company and affect the financing efficiency. 4. Realistic Choices for Solving SME Financing The  first  is  to  enhance  the  overall  strength  of  SMEs.  Only  by  improving  the  comprehensive strength  and  business  quality  of  small  and  mediumsized  enterprises  can  their  credit  status  be improved and financing problems can be fundamentally solved. Therefore SME managers should conscientiously  learn  financing  knowledge  master  certain  financing  methods  and  strategies  and conduct  scientific  operations.  Accelerate  product  innovation  and  technological  innovation  and improve business management. The second is to standardize the financial accounting system. Small and mediumsized enterprises should establish a sound corporate financial system internal control system  and  supervision  mechanism  regulate  the  operation  of  enterprises  through  institutional construction  eliminate  the  occurrence  of  fake  reports  fake  contracts  and  ensure  the  integrity accuracy  and  authenticity  of  financial  information.  Further  improve  the  information  disclosure awareness  and  information  transparency  of  business  managers  and  pay  attention  to  establishing longterm cooperative relationships with banks and reduce the cost of information integration and supervision in the process of bank credit. The third is to focus on building an image of corporate honesty and trustworthiness. In order to enhance the overall competitiveness of SMEs and establish a  good  reputation  in  their  own  markets  SMEs  should  provide  credit  banks  with  complete  and accurate financial information on a regular basis and fully protect the bank\\xe2\\x80\\x99s claims in the course of business  operations  and  eliminate  bank  debt  and  misappropriation  of  loans.  In  case  of untrustworthy behavior it is necessary to \\xe2\\x80\\x9chave borrowed money\\xe2\\x80\\x9d to effectively improve its credit rating and establish a good image of honesty and trustworthiness. The  first  is  to  establish  the  equity  financing  market  for  SMEs.  The  timely  establishment  of  a secondtier market for equity financing by SMEs is an important approach and an important method for solving the financing difficulties of SMEs. Currently we can refer to the requirements of the Hong  Kong  Growth  Enterprise  Market  to  set  conditions  for  the  listing  of  SMEs  and  encourage SMEs to participate in capital operations so that they can use the securities market to buy shells backdoors and reverse the backdoor listing. They can also use the stock market equity (property) transactions. The market conducts mergers and acquisitions asset restructurings and uses foreign capital to restructure and transform through joint ventures cooperation and property transfer. At the same  time  it  is  also  possible  to  use  intangible  assets  and  virtual  operations  to  carry  out  capital management  prompting  small  and  mediumsized  enterprises  to  expand  rapidly  increase  their strength  and  solve  important  financing  difficulties  for  SMEs.  The  second  is  to  establish  and improve  the  financial  market  system.  Experience  shows  that  a  sound  financial  system  can  help increase  the  efficiency  of  fund  allocation.  Taking  into  account  the  fact  that  China\'s  financing channels are single it is necessary to establish multiple forms of financing channels to solve the problem of financing difficulties for SMEs. According to foreign experience it is recommended to proceed from the following four aspects First encourage existing commercial banks to broaden the service sector increase service awareness and strengthen the support for SME credit; Second we must actively create conditions to establish a policy for service for SMEs Financial institutions to provide  financial  support  for  SMEs;  third  is  to  encourage  SMEs  to  establish  cooperative  and mutualsupporting financial organizations to solve the business development needs of funds; Fourth to broaden the channels for direct financing of enterprises and encourage qualified quality SMEs are listed  and  financed  and  gradually  establish  a  mature  system  of  counseling  SMEs  for  listing and financing. Through the above measures the formation of a unified financial market is promoted. The  third  is  to  establish  small  and  mediumsized  financial  institutions  as  soon  as  possible  The establishment  of  SME  financial  institutions  is  an  important  measure  to  solve  the  financing difficulties of  SMEs  and  the  current  conditions  are  relatively  mature  First  existing  commercial banks cannot meet the funding needs of a large number of SMEs; Second there is a large amount of 233\\x0cprivate capital in China. There is a considerable portion of hot money circulating outside of legal capital engaging in nonproductive business activities such as usury securities speculation and real estate  speculation.  Third  in  recent  years  there  have  been  largescale  capital  flight  behaviors  in China  which  to  a  certain  extent  indicate  the  inefficiency  of  capital.  The  existence  of  the configuration. Fourth China\'s underground economic activities are very active and private lending is growing. Therefore it should be legalized through the establishment of small and mediumsized financial institutions so as to play an active role in the financing of SMEs. The fourth is to speed up the establishment of a credit evaluation system for SMEs. The social credit supervision system is not perfect. It is an important cause of information asymmetry between SMEs and financial institutions SMEs arbitrarily defaulting on borrowing and the owners of funds are afraid or unwilling to invest in SMEs. Therefore the credit rating of SMEs should be taken into consideration.  Establish  an  authoritative  credit  rating  standard  or  credit  evaluation  system  for different  types  of  SMEs  and  design  different  financial  instruments  according  to  different  credit rating standards. At present in some regions of China there are established credit rating agencies for enterprises but there are problems that the rating standards are not uniform and the authority is poor.  At  the  same  time  the  dynamic  supervision  of  small  and  mediumsized  enterprises  by corporate credit rating agencies is weak and they cannot report the credit rating of SMEs in a timely manner. It is recommended to set up a special credit supervision agency to track and supervise the credit status of SMEs and publish the credit rating of SMEs on a regular basis. This can achieve effective  supervision  of  SME  managers  or  enterprises  and  enable  investors  to  quickly  and selectively to invest. 5. Conclusion In recent years various departments of the country have issued various policies to support the development  of  SMEs  which  have  alleviated  the  financing  difficulties  of  SMEs  to  some  extent. However the problem of \\xe2\\x80\\x9cfinancing difficulties and expensive financing\\xe2\\x80\\x9d still exists. This includes both  the  problems  of  the  enterprises  themselves  and  the  reasons  for  the  incomplete  external financing  environment.  This  paper  deeply  analyzes  the  deepseated  reasons  that  restrict  the financing of SMEs from both the enterprise itself and the external environment. It also proposes policy  recommendations  to  broaden  financing  channels  and  build  a  multitiered  SME  financing service system. References [1] Joseph E. Stiglitz Andrew Weiss Credit Rationing in Markets with Imperfect Information [J]. The American Economic Review 1981 71 (3) 393410. [2]  Banerjee  A.V.  Besley  T.  Guinnane  T.W.  The  Neighbor\'s  Keeper  The  Design  of  a  Credit Cooperative with Theory and a Test [J]. Quarterly Journal of Economics 1994109. [3]  Lin  Yifu  Li  Yongjun.  Development  of  Small  and  Mediumsized  Financial  Institutions  and Financing of SMEs[J]. Economic Research 2001(1)1018 53. [4]  Lin  Yifu  Sun  Xifang.  Information  informal  finance  and  financing  of  SMEs  [J].  Economic Research 2005 (7) 3544. [5]  Ma  Guangrong  Yang  Enyan.  Social  Network  Informal  Finance  and  Entrepreneurship  [J]. Economic Research 2011(3)8394. 234\\x0c'