b'herein fileThe Disruption of Fintech On Rural Bank An Empirical Study On Rural Banks in Indonesia Silvia Ika Anggreini1 Arif Singapurwoko2 Universitas Islam Indonesia Indonesia 15311040@students.uii.ac.id1 arif_singa@uii.ac.id2  investigate Abstract    This  research  aims  to if  the emergence of financial technology startups gives disruption to rural banks. The research is to determine the difference before and after the emergence of Fintech on NonPerforming Loans (NPL) Return on Assets (ROA) Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) and Net Loan to Total Asset Ratio (NLTA). Because nowadays the conditions of the Rural Bank industry face challenges with the emergence  of  Fintech.  This  research  was  conducted in Indonesia  by  involving  rural  banks  registered  in  Financial Service Authority in the period 2013  2018. This research data is taken from 50 Rural Banks. The method carried out in this research  was  3  years  before  the  emergence of  Fintech  and 3 years  after  the  emergence  of  Fintech.  This  study  employed Paired Sample Ttest to examine if NPL ROA LDR and NLTA received  differences  before  and  after  financial  technology emerged. The test results show that there is a difference before and after the emergence of Fintech on NonPerforming Loans (NPL) Return on Assets (ROA) Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) and Net Loan to Total Asset Ratio (NLTA) in Rural Banks.  Keywords    Financial  Technology  NonPerforming  Loans (NPL) Return on Assets (ROA) Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) Net Loan to Total Asset Ratio (NLTA) Rural Banks.  I. INTRODUCTION The economy of a country cannot be separated from the  role  of  the  bank.  Bank  is  a  firm  that  both  accepts demand  deposits  and  market  commercial  loans  [33]. Banking  is  a  business  in  financial  intermediation  where one  group  of  people  deposit  money  with  the  bank  and other group utilize the same money by availing loan from the  bank  for  income  generating  activities  or  credit.  The word credit comes from the Latin word    credere" means trust.  The  main  definition  of  credit  is  reliance  on  and confidence in the truth worth reliability of a  person or thing [3]  In  Indonesia  rural  bank  regulated  in  the  Banking Principal  Act  Number  7  of  1992  and  the  Law  of  the Republic of Indonesia Number 10 of 1998 it is stated that village banks market banks village barns and employee banks  have  become  rural  banks.  Rural  banks  are  much narrower  if  they  are  compared  to  commercial  banks.  In accordance with the bank regulation it has been stated that the credit provided by the bank contains risks. Bank can anticipate credit risk through several ratios. The ratio used is asset quality ratio profitability ratio and liquidity ratio.  Those  ratios  can  be  measured  by  NonPerforming Ratio (NPL) Return on Asset (ROA) Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) and Net Loan to Asset Ratio (NLTA).     Competition  in  financial  markets  is  getting  tighter with  the  emergence  of  digital  financial  technology  or Fintech [9]. Convenience provided by Fintech in providing online  portfolio  management  services  and  international money  transfers  such  as  crowdfunding  platforms  and mobile  payment  solutions  is  a  new  way  of  providing "financial"  services  by  utilizing  "technology"  or  called "Fintech".  Therefore  there  is  competition  from  the emergence of Fintech with traditional banks and financial institutions  [29].  In  different  word  Fintech  means  the innovation  from  financial  services  or  products  that  are produced by technology. In concert with the progress in technology as well as mobile and internet along with their global  widespread  adoption  the  expectations  from consumers are changing. Many businesses or startups are operating  on  Fintech  related  products  and  there  are major disruptions in financial services [6].  Fintech  is  growing  very  rapidly  along  with  the development of technology. In economic finance Fintech provides solutions with every type of technology it offers [7].  There  are  similarities  in  services  offered  by  Fintech and  traditional  banks  but  in  different  ways  because Fintech  is  more  efficient  by  utilizing  technology  [9]. Because  Fintech  provides the same service as a  bank it can disrupt the performance and profitability of the bank. According to Fintech Indonesia there are 161 Fintech companies in Indonesia until 2018. In addition Financial service  authority  (FSA)  in  Indonesia  on  July  2017  until December 2018 there are 88 Fintech lending companies have  been  registered  and licensed.  Globally  the Compound  annual  growth  rate  (CAGR)  for  Fintech companies  from  20142020  is  estimated  to  reach  51% [23]. Based on these data it can be seen that the growth of  Fintech  is  growing  very  rapidly  and  has  succeeded  in transforming  an  existing  system  or  market.  The emergence  of  Fintech  introduces  practicality  ease  of access  convenience  and  economical  costs  otherwise known as disruptive innovation [18]. II. LITERATURE REVIEW A. Fintech run financial Traditional institutions into disrupted  revolutionary  and  attacks  from  digital weapons  which  is  from  the  emergence  of  Fintech [26].  According  to  Indonesian  Bank  the  modern financial  system  produces  new  services  products and  business  models  using  technology  or  Fintech which  affect  monetary  stability  financial  system 1  the  payment  or stability  smoothness  security  reliability  and efficiency  of loan  system. Digitalization  in  the  financial  sector  is  also  called Fintech which is the use of advanced internetbased technology that moves mostly in the financial sector. Internetbased  technology  in  the  fields  of  cellular payments  ecommerce  and  earlystage  crowdbased financing or can be called crowdfunding and crowd investing is an example of modern technology services to activate or provide financial services [31]. In  the  other  meaning  the  increase  in  financial activity is currently influenced by the emergence of Fintech  which  entered  the  financial  industry  by applying technology in its activities [25]. The term of Fintech is not confined to specific industries such as peertopeer (P2P) lending nevertheless it includes financial services that were traditionally supplied by the  financial  industry  and  all  of  financial  products [20]. The evolution of Fintech is started in [7] 1)  1967  the  launch  of  the  ATM  (Automated Teller Machine) 2)  19671987  the  financial  services  industry changes from traditional to digital industry 3)  19872008  the  financial  services  industry was into  a  digital industry supported by the emergence of the internet around 2000. largely  transformed information Fintech  provide  several  advantages  such  as Fintech  allows  them  to  lend  cheaper  or  provide better  products  Fintech  companies  can  save  labor and  office  space  costs  that  are  significantly  more comfortable  according  to  consumer  reviews  and creditors may be able to choose better prospective borrowers  provide from  various sources and technologybased lending that uses the big data approach [10]. Fintech is easy to adapt with the needs of consumers who are fast changing and the  existence  of  lowcost  financial  services  that make Fintech more attractive to the public so there is  no  need  for  geographical  concentration.  Fintech easy adjusting changes in consumer behavior easier regulation  and  offers  a  lower  risk  of  services  and products [12]. The services and products offered by Fintech are the same as banks the difference is they utilize technology that makes Fintech becomes more efficient [9]. B.  Rural Bank Rural  banks  are  a  place  to  help  the  poor  in alleviating poverty by providing loans and firsthand information  of  the  needs  and  enthusiasm  of  poor people [27]. In Indonesia rural banks are commonly referred  to  as  Bank  Perkreditan  Rakyat  (BPR)  and can  be  categorized  as  small  banks  that  usually finance small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Rural banks  are  one  of  the  main  financial  intermediary entities for the SMEs [34]. The basic function of rural banks  is  to  meet  the  financial  pressures  of  middle and  small  entrepreneurs  farmers  and  savings  mobilization [17]. There are several services that are provided  by  rural  banks  in  general  which  are savings deposits and credit. The  history  of  the  emergence  of  Rural  Banks (BPR) in Indonesia 1.  Began in the Dutch colonial era. 2.  Rural  banks  (BPR)  in  Indonesia  began  in  the 19th  century  with  the  establishment  of  Bank Kredit  Rakyat  (BKR)  and  the  village  granary which  was  built  with  the  aim  of  helping farmers  employees  workers in  order  to escape the bondage of moneylenders who are burdened with high interest. 3.  After Indonesia proclaimed independence the government  encouraged the  establishment  of market  banks  which  were  particularly  wellknown  because  they  were  established  in  the market  environment  and  aimed  to  provide financial services to market traders. Then the market  banks  were  confirmed  as  rural  banks (BPR). Thenceforward rural banks in Indonesia have grown rapidly. 4.  On June 2018 rural banks were recorded in the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in Indonesia as many as 1603 offices spread across regions in Indonesia. Rural banks provide several benefits by providing loans the first  is that rural folks have been helped for several years by the existence of rural banks with loans. Second the Rural Bank teaches rural folks to have savings and make loans at banks. Third helping the  economy  by  giving  loans  to  people  who  have productive  businesses  helping  development  and improving  the  socioeconomic  life  of  the  rural population [17].  C.  Management Credit of Bank Credit is the provision of money or bills based on an approval or agreement. Before obtaining credit the  customer  must  go  through  several  phases  of credit  which  must  be  fulfilled  as  the  stage  of  the crediting  process.    Credit  in  a  planned  economy means both the enterprise as borrower and the bank as lender [2]. In providing credit to borrowers there is a process that must be performed which is credit administration.  Credit  administration  is  carried  out to  protect  both  parties  namely  banks  or  related financial institutions and clients or parties who carry out  credit.  Banks  or  related  financial  institutions conduct  credit  administration  to  avoid  the  risk  of default  while  the  client  is  making  more  obligation commitments  that  cannot  be  settled  in  auspicious way  [27].  There  are  4  types  of  banking  credit products  which  are  Microfinance  loans  SouSou loans Salary loans and Commercial loans. Loan of Portfolio D. Loans  are  the  main  sources  of  profit  among banks  [34].  Loan  risk  can  be  classified  into  pass other (OLEM) substandard  doubtful  and  loss.  To  determine  the especially  mentioned loans 2  level of loans on rural bank it can use the NPL ratio. Liquidity and profitability in banks can be seen with an increase or decrease on NPL the higher the value on NPL in the loan portfolio of bank indicates there is a greater risk [1]. The presence of moral hazard or risk  in  the  banking  sector  can  also  be  identified through the NPL level at the bank [8]. income is  obtained  from In the profitability the aspect of performance of a  bank  can  be  captured  through  Return  on  assets (ROA)  and  this  is  the  ratio  of  net  income  to  total assets  [11].    The  company  measures  the  level  of effectiveness  in  generating  profits  by  exploiting  its assets  this in  the company\'s operations which is calculated using ROA [13].  To  assess  the  liquidity  can  use  LDR  means  a ratio  between  loan  that  is  distributed  and  total deposit  from  the  bank  creditor.  The  emergence  of Fintech brings convenience in loans the Rural Bank needs  to  see  the  ability  of  asset  liquidity  to  avoid illiquid  assets.  It  can  be  measured  by  NLTA  ratio which  means  an  increased  percentage  of  the  total assets is tied up in loans [35]. E.  Hypothesis Development Fintech  adds  credit  modelling.  An  increase  in financial  inclusion  marked  by  an  increase  in  loan ratings  obtained  by  several  borrowers  is  the  result from  the  emergence  of  Fintech.  It  can  make borrowers  more  often  to  take  loans  at  Fintech  so that the borrowers are not on time to pay loans at rural  banks.  As  a  result  nonperforming  loans  at rural  banks  has  increased.  They  also  stated  that credit in banks has a  complexity in providing loans [15].  Therefore  Fintech  provides  a  place  for borrowers or businesses that do not get loans at the bank or they are rejected by the bank because they cannot  fulfill  the  requirements  to  take  loans  in traditional  banking  [22].  On  the  other  hand  in exchange for providing funds the insights possessed by startup companies can be utilized by traditional financial institutions the purpose is that they are not obsolete  and technological developments.  It  means  the  emergence  of  Fintech can  help  Rural  Banks  become  more  efficient.  The positive  relationship  between  rural  banks  and Fintech  can  make  the  borrower  carries  out  credit smoothly  and  reduces  the  value  of  delinquent  or decrease the value of NonPerforming Loans.  keep  up  with A  decline  in  ROA  due  to  the  emergence  of Fintech in banks also occurred in the US [14] and in commercial banks in China during 2014 to 2016 [38]. Incumbent companies such as rural banks can obtain a  significant  threat  with  the  emergence  of  Fintech that continues to grow and penetrate deeper in the daily  scenario  of  its  customers.  The  new  era  when technology began to be used to provide services that were needed and could be accepted by community easily and directly or indirectly created new ways for society  so  this  made  the  emergence  of  new cultures.  New  business  schemes  and  new  business  models provided by Fintech are effective forms from the utilization of technology that will be a demand in the  future  for  the  community.  When  community demand can be fulfilled this makes the community begin  to  switch  to  using  Fintech  in  conducting transactions  especially  in  credit  loans  [32].  In  a research  that  conducted  a  survey  among  financial executives found  that  collaboration  between traditional financial institutions and Fintech startups could  provide  new  ideas  into  their  business.  It  is  a positive impact for financial institution such as rural banks  because  from  collaboration  with  Fintech startup can generate a new profit that can increase company\'s  ROA  [19].  By  embracing  Fintech  rural bank can reduce operating cost [16]. to reduce services individual  participation Fintech  provide  better their customers  such  as the  number  of middlemen that a person must pass through to get service  from  buyer  to  seller  help  tailor  payment amounts  to levels  and facilitate  higher  payment  frequencies.  It  became threat  for  traditional  banking  service  because  the easier people to lend money from Fintech the more often  they  will  do  it.  Therefore  it  led  to  reduce  in bank  deposits. Debtor are more likely to distribute money  to  Fintech  which  causes  a  reduction  in  the level  of  bank  liquidity.  The  decline  in  the  level  of bank  liquidity  has  an  impact  on  the  percentage  of LDR.  It  gives  a  negative  impact  on  the  bank  [4]. Fintech  provide  convenience  to low income to take loans and rural banks face a decrease in  funds  from  third  parties  [24].  However  the performance of banks is greatly assisted by existing innovations  in  digital  finance  for  the  longterm impacts [30].  individual Fintech is growing quickly steadily and it can be supplement  for  the  present  financial  industry  to serve SME borrowers neglected by most banks and able  to  help  exist  lenders  to  assess  the  financial conditions  of  millions  of  consumers  smaller businesses  and  make  smarter  lending  decisions [20]. Joint ventures or other types of alliances can be made  between  Fintech  and  traditional  banks. Through  this  joint  ventures  or  partnership  banks can  fulfill  obligations  in  providing  funds  to  third parties  [36]. Another research found that payment services provided by Google Amazon and Apple run into  rapid  growth.  In  addition  since  the  launch  of Amazon  lending  services  in  2011  this  service  has grown steadily. In fact digital financial services are also  available  on  social  media  and  utilize  the technology  that  knows  the  characteristics  of  its users.  Through  these  findings  Fintech  has  the potential financial intermediaries and incumbent companies [37].   established disrupt to Based on the theories and previous studies the hypotheses are as follows H1  There  is  a  difference  before  and  after  the emergence of Fintech on NPL in rural bank 3  H2  There  is  a  difference  before  and  after  the emergence of Fintech on ROA in rural bank H3  There  is  a  difference  before  and  after  the emergence of Fintech on LDR in rural bank H4  There  is  a  difference  before  and  after  the emergence of Fintech on NLTA in rural bank  III.  METHODOLOGY in Indonesia.  Financial  Services  Authority Population  in  this  research  are  conducted  on  rural in banks Indonesia report that until September 2018 there were 1598 rural banks that spread throughout Indonesia. The rural  bank  samples  were  selected  by  considering  the following criteria a.  Rural banks registered in the Financial Services Authority and Indonesian Bank b.  Rural banks that publish their annual financial statements from 2013 until 2018. c.  Rural  banks  that  have  assets  of  25  billion rupiahs to 1 trillion rupiahs d.  The sample companies have complete data. Based on the four criteria this research obtained 76 rural banks with 50 rural banks which have complete data and there are 38 samples Rural Bank that can be used in this  research.  The  data  in  this  research  was  secondary data  collected  from  financial  services  authority  (FSA) Indonesian  bank research.  The investigation was conducted in 20132018. The variables of  this  research  were  NPL  ROA  LDR  and  NLTA  which measured in  a  period  of  three  years  before  the emergence  of  Fintech  and  three  years  after  the emergence  of  Fintech.  To  test  the  hypothesis  this research  employed  paired  sample  ttest.  The  use  of variables can be seen on table I and table II. (BI)  and library Table I. Variables before the emergence of Fintech ANPLBF AROABF ALDRBF ANLTABF Loan Average  NonPerforming Before Fintech Average  Return  On  Asset  Before Fintech Average  Loan  To  Deposit  Ratio Before Fintech Average  Net  Loan  To  Total  Asset Before Fintech   Table II. Variables after the emergence of Fintech ANPLAF AROAAF ALDRAF ANLTAAF Loan Average  NonPerforming After Fintech Average  Return  On  Asset  After Fintech Average  Loan  To  Deposit  Ratio After Fintech Average  Net  Loan  To  Total  Asset After Fintech   IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS To  test  the  hypothesis  researcher  look  the  result from the table III. In table III it shows that hypothesis 1 and 2 are accepted. This result is supported with previous research that stated Fintech have similar market segment with  rural  bank  which  is  Fintech  in  line  with  the  value chain of a traditional bank and financing is by far the most important  segment  of  the  emerging  Fintech  market  [5]. And this finding also confirm the previous research which stated the credit facilities for consumers at a lower cost and Fintech facilities made it easier for borrowers to make loans.  It  causes  a  decline  in  profits  at  the  Rural  Bank because  the  borrower  cannot  pay  off  the  loan  which causes  an  increase  in  the  NPL  [15].  In  addition  Fintech firms  have  other  potential  cost  advantages  which  may partially  offset  advantage  of  banks  such  as lower regulatory  costs  and  more  effective  utilization  of information technology [28]. Another  research  stated  that  Fintech  disturbs traditional banking services especially in providing credit and this disruption was evidenced by the success of the Fintech  company  called  Lending  Club  in  the  US  which resulted in a decrease in ROA for traditional banks  [14]. Research conducted in commercial bank in China stated that  there  is  a  change  in  the  scenario  in  the  financial services business where the Rural Bank gets a threat from the  emergence  of  Fintech  [38].  The  impact  from  the emergence of Fintech also found in the previous research which  stated  the  emergence  brings  new  ideas  for  rural banks  [19].  Fintech  can  help  rural  bank  to  reduce operating  cost  and  the  impact  is  relating  to  the  size complexity  and  nature  of  business  [16].  Therefore  the emergence of Fintech is disrupting the rural bank and it can be seen from the increasing NPL and decreasing ROA. However  hypotheses  3  and  4  are  rejected  which means  there  is  no  difference  before  and  after  the emergence  of  Fintech  on  LDR  and  NLTA.  This  result  is opposite to previous research which stated that there are differences  before  and  after  the  emergence  of  Fintech. The results obtained from this research test during 20132018 indicate that rural banks still have sufficient liquidity for  their  business  expansion  and  only  a  few  assets  are bound in the loan. Based  on  previous  research  and  test  results  in  this research  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  emergence  of Fintech influences asset  quality and profitability of rural banks  but  it  does  not  influence  the  liquidity  of  Rural Banks. Therefore there is no difference before and after the emergence of Fintech on the liquidity of rural banks. Table III. Variables Comparison Before and After the Emergence of Fintech Indicator ANPLBF     ANPLAF AROABF     AROAAF Means 2.05  3.07 4.22  3.71 Significance 0.000 Conclusion Accepted 0.001 Accepted 4  ALDRBF     ALDRAF ANLTABF     ANLTAAF  82.59  82.23 80.54  80.54 0.654 Rejected 0.998 Rejected V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS The  emergence  of  Fintech  as  an  innovation  in financial  technology  can  affect  financial  institutions. There  are  various  types  of  financial  institutions.  In  this research  the  researchers  chose  rural  banks  as  research samples  because  the  research  sample  influenced  the results of the study. Fintech and rural banks have almost the same  market segmentation which  is providing peer to peer lending for SMEs and retail market. However not all aspects of rural banks are affected by the emergence of Fintech. The results of this research revealed that the emergence of Fintech affects the quality of assets and the profitability of rural banks.  The  emergence  of  Fintech  made  people  switch  to take loans from Fintech companies because they offered loan services that were easier faster and more efficient. This causes people who have made loans at the rural bank cannot payback the loans and make bad loans. Thus rural banks run into an increase in bad loans and a decrease in income. Even though the emergence of Fintech affected the asset quality and profitability of rural banks the test showed  that  there  was  no  difference  with  before  and after  the  emergence  of  Fintech  in  rural  banks  liquidity. Therefore rural banks still have liquidity to provide loans. It  can  be  seen  from  the  LDR  in  rural  banks  are  still  at normal level. limitations There  are  several in  this  research. Therefore some additions and improvements need to be made by the next researcher. First future researcher can make  research  with  more  sample  number  and  it  can cover  many  rural  banks  where  the  result  can  be  more accurate.  Second  the  data  used  for  calculation  can  be using monthly or quarterly in order to get a better result. Third  use  more  independent  variables  to  obtain  more complex  results  in  calculating  variables  therefore  the results  obtained  are  more  effective.  Fourth  future research can look for the relationships between variables on NPL ROA LDR and NLTA. VI. REFERENCES [1]  A.  Ghosh  "Bankingindustry  specific  and  regional economic  determinants  of  nonperforming loans Evidence  from  US  states"  Journal  of  Financial  Stability vol. 20 pp. 93104 2015.  [2]  A. Zwass    Money Banking & Credit in the Soviet Union & eastern Europe    Routledge 2017. [3]  B.  Edwards  Credit  management  handbook  Gower Publishing Ltd. 2004.  [4]  B.  S.  Thompson  "Can  Financial  Technology  Innovate Benefit  Distribution  in  Payments  for Ecosystem  Services and  REDD+?"  Ecological  Economics  vol.  139  pp.  150157 September 2017.   [5]  C. Haddad and L. Hornuf "The emergence of the global fintech  market technological determinants"  Small  Business  Economics  pp.  125  27 March 2018.  Economic and [6]  D. K. C. LEE and G. S. Z. J. TEO "Emergence of FinTech and the  LASIC  Principles"  Journal  of  Financial  Perspectives vol. 3 no. 3 pp. 126 2015.  [7]  D.  W.  Arner  J.  N.  Barberis  and  R.  P.  Buckley  "The Evolution of Fintech A New PostCrisis Paradigm?" SSRN Electronic Journal no. 47 p. 1271 2015.  [8]  D. Zhang J. Cai D. G. Dickinson and A. M. Kutan "Nonperforming  loans  moral  hazard  and  regulation  of  the Chinese" Journal of Banking & finance vol. 63 pp. 4860 February 2016.  [9]  G. B. Navaretti G. Calzolari and A. F. Pozzolo "Fintech and Banking. Friends or Foes?" European Economy pp. 930 2018.  [10] G. Buchak G. Matvos T. Piskorski and A. Seru "Fintech regulatory  arbitrage  and  the  rise  of  shadow  banks" Journal of Financial Economics  vol. 130 no. 3 pp. 453483 2018.  [11] I.  Japparova  and  R.  RupeikaApoga  "Banking  business models of the digital future the case of Latvia" European Research  Studies  Journal  vol.  20  no.  3A  pp.  846860 2017.  [12] I.  Rom  nova  and  M.  Kudinska  "Banking  and  Fintech  A Challenge  or  Opportunity?"  in  Contemporary  Studies  in Economic and Financial Analysis vol. 98 Emerald Group Publishing Limited 2016 pp. 2135. [13] I.  Sidharta  and  A.  Affandi  "The  Empirical  Study  on Intellectual  Capital  Approach  toward" International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues vol. 6 no. 3 pp. 12471253 2016.  [14] J.  Dermine  "Digital  disruption  and  bank lending" European Economy no. 2 pp. 6376 2017.  [15] J.  Jagtiani  and  C.  Lemieux  "Fintech  lending  Financial inclusion risk pricing and alternative information" SSRN Electronic Journal 26 December 2017.  [16] J.  Johnes  M.  Izzeldin  V.  Pappas  and  C.  Alexakis "Performance and conventional  banks  Evidence  from  the  global  financial crisis" Economic Modelling 2 October 2018.  and  productivity Islamic in [17] J. KoduahBoateng "The contribution of rural banking in terms  of  loans  assessment  to  the  improvement  of  the living conditions of the people of EjisuJuaben DistrictA case study of Juaben Rural Bank Ltd" Ghana 2016. [18] J.  L.  Bower  and  C.  M.  Christensen  "Disruptive technologies Catching the wave" The Journal of Product Innovation Management vol. 1 no. 13 pp. 7576 1996.  [19] J.  Skan  J.  Dickerson  and  .  S.  Masood  "The  Future  of Fintech and Banking Digitally disrupted or reimagined" Accenture 2015.  [20] L. Lu "How A Little Ant Challenges Giant Banks? The Rise of  Ant  Financial  (Alipay)\'s  Fintech  Empire  and  Relevant Regulatory  Concerns" International  Company  and Commercial Law Review  no. 1 pp. 09585214 2018.  5      [21] M. M. C. d. M. Mello "US Fintech Sector shortrun and longrun performance of initial public offerings" 2018. [22] M. Schweitzer and B. Barkley "Is\' Fintech\'Good for Small Business  Borrowers?  Impacts  on  Firm  Growth  and Customer Satisfaction." January 2017.  [23] M.  Stanley  "Global  Insight  Blockchain in  Banking Disruptive Threat or Tool" Recuperado de https//www. febelfin. be/sites/default/files/InDepth/310016810morganstanleyblockchainreport\\\\_0. pdf 2016.  [24] P. K. Ozili "Impact of digital finance on financial inclusion and  stability"  Borsa  Istanbul  Review  vol.  18  no.  4  pp. 329340 December 2018.  [25] P. Schueffel "Taming the Beast A Scientific Definition of Fintech" Journal of Innovation Management vol. 4 no. 4 pp. 3254 2016.  [26] R.  MCWATERS  and  G.  BRUNO  "Beyond  Fintech  A Pragmatic Assessment Of Disruptive Potential In Financial service"  in  Part  of  the  future  of  financial  services series/Prepared  in  collaboration  with  Deloitte.  WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 2017.  [27] R.  Nsiah  "An  Examination  of  the  Credit  Management Practices of Rural Banks A Case Study of  Asokore Rural Bank  Limited"  Available  at  SSRN  2494259  p.  35  10 September 2014.  [28] R.  T.  Thakor  and  R.  C.  Merton  "Trust  in  Lending" Cambridge 2018. [29] S.  Darolles  "The  rise  of  fintechs  and  their  regulation" Financial Stability Review no. 20 pp. 8592 April 2016.  [30] S. V. Scott J. Van Reenen and M. Zachariadis "The longterm effect of digital innovation on bank performance An empirical study of SWIFT adoption in financial services" Research Policy vol. 46 no. 5 pp. 9841004 March 2017.  [31] T. Dapp L. Slomka D. B. AG and R. Hoffmann "FintechThe digital (r) evolution in the financial sector" Deutsche Bank Research    Frankfurt am Main 11 November 2014.  [32] T. Nakashima "Creating credit by making use of mobility with FinTech and IoT" IATSS Research vol. 42 no. 2 pp. 6166 July 2018.  [33] T. W. Koch and S. S. MacDonald Bank management 6th ed. Nelson Education 2014.  [34] T.K. Chou and A. D. Buchdadi "Bank performance and its underlying factors A study of rural banks in Indonesia" Accounting and Finance Research vol. 5 no. 3 pp. 5563 30 June 2016.  [35] TrujilloPonce  "What  determines  the  profitability  of banks? Evidence from Spain" Accounting & Finance vol. 53 no. 2 pp. 561586 2013.  [36] W.  A.  Boot  "Understanding  the  future  of  banking  scale and scope economies and fintech" The Future of Large Internationally Active Banks vol. 55 p. 431 2016.  [37] X.  Vives  "The  impact  of  FinTech  on  banking"  European Economy no. 2 pp. 97105 2017.  [38] Y. Guo and C. Liang "Blockchain application and outlook in the banking industry" Financial Innovation vol. 2 no. 1 p. 24 9 December 2016.    6  '