b'herein fileSpecial ThemeTechnologies for Inclusiveness and EqualityUse  of Blockchain  and aritificial intelligence to  promote  financial  inclUsion  in indiaSaon Raya Sandeep Paulb and Smita MiglanicaSenior Fellow Email sray@icrier.res.in bResearch Associate Email spaul@icrier.res.in cResearch Associate Email smiglani@icrier.res.in Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations Core 6A 4th Floor India Habitat Center Lodhi Road New Delhi 110003 IndiaAbstractThe financial sector covers five broad functions. These are to (i) make and receive payments including across borders; (ii) save to be able to consume or invest later; (iii) borrow to be able to consume or invest now; (iv) manage risks to income savings and transactions; and (v) receive advice on all above. Fintech may spur efficiency gains in the financial sector offer better and more targeted products and services and deepen financial inclusion in the developing world. However it may also pose risks if its application undermines competition trust monetary policy transmission and financial stability.  This article examines the potential of Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLTs) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) in financial inclusion. DLT coupled with AI can be beneficial in the domains of control security and privacy in financial transactions and financial inclusion. Fintech The term financial technologies or    Fintech    is used to describe a variety of innovative business models and emerging technologies that have the potential to transform the financial services industry (OICOIOSCO 2017). Innovative Fintech business models offer one or more specific financial products or services in an automated fashion through the use of the internet. Emerging technologies such as cognitive computing machine learning artificial intelligence and distributed  ledger  technologies  can  be used to supplement both Fintech new entrants and traditional incumbents.Alternative finance grew rapidly in the Asia Pacific region in 201617 with China an undisputed leader followed by Australia Japan Republic of Korea Singapore and India in the region. The Asian region is expected to fuel the growth in this sector as financial inclusion and quality access is an unfinished agenda and mobile and internet penetration is increasing rapidly. In 201617 of the USD4.3 billion investment  in  the  region  45  percent  of  that amount is attributed to developments in China and 38 percent to India with the rest for other countries.1 Globally two sectors that received most cumulative funding are payments (US$24.3 billion) and lending (US$ 13 billion). The Chinese fintech sector has shown phenomenal growth with relatively short maturity curve. A ranking of  the  world   s  most  innovative  fintech firms  gave  Chinese  companies  four  of the top five slots in 2017. The most notable growth in mobile payments online lending  and  investment.  Extraordinary growth in Chinese fintech sector was due to a techsavvy population and an underdeveloped banking industry.Singapore is fast turning into a major destination  for  investors  and  foreign industry  players  owing  to  extensive  government  support  and  expertise  of corporate mentors. Indonesia is another country with fast growing fintech industry. It is the fourth largest mobile market in the world with  339.9 million  connections and about 43% owns a smart phone and mobile is the preferred medium for internet access but very low levels of financial inclusion so far. The Republic of Korea boasts of a very vibrant fintech business and most notable growth is happening in payment related  services  and  new  banking  platforms. In July 2017 the Republic of Korea created a separate ministry Ministry of startup  to  strengthen  competitiveness and support innovation within the SMEs and  startup  space  in  the  Republic  of Korea. Digital financial services is yet to make inroads in Thailand. Digital banking penetration in Thailand is close to 19 per cent     far from Taiwan   s province of China 92 per cent and Singapore   s 94 per cent. Credit card usage in Thailand stands at 3.7 per cent compared with 51 per cent for Taiwan province of China and 31 per cent for Singapore.The Indian Fintech industry and especially payments vertical greatly benefited from  digitization  policy  of  government. AADHAR envisaged to provide residents of India with a unique identity and a digital platform to authenticate anytime anywhere has been the biggest enabler. It was widely adopted by all the players for customer on boarding and digital Know Your Customer (KYC) verification.2 Unified Payments Interface (UPI) promoted by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) is fully interoperable across all payments system  players. It powers multiple bank accounts 1 2  2nd Asia Pacific Region Alternative Finance Industry Report (2017)  Due to the Supreme Court ruling Aadhar can be used for EKYC verification only by banks. See also https//economictimes.indiatimes.com/wealth/p2p/howwillthescverdictonaadhaarimpactonlinelendingcompanies/articleshow/66144423.cmsTECH MONITOR     JanMar 2019    11 into a single mobile application (of any participating bank) merging several banking features seamless fund routing and merchant payments into one hood. The Digital India campaign and demonetization also substantially  contributed  to  the  growth of digital transactions. Sustained growth in smartphone penetration and internet connectivity also helped. In recent times payments transfers and lending are receiving maximum attention in this space. Innovations in this category are targeted at improving the speed and efficiency of payments clearing and settlement reducing cost and changing the ways people access financial services and conduct financial transactions. Technology can (i) reduce the need for financial intermediaries (specialized financial firms banks and nonbanks alike that facilitate transactions between  two  or  more  parties);  (ii)  push intermediaries  to  change  their  internal structures (possibly leading to partnerships and acquisitions); (iii) induce the entry of new intermediaries while displacing older one. Technology can alter the market imperfections across the financial system which underpin the need for trusted intermediaries. It can reduce asymmetric information (limited knowledge of one   s counterparties to a transaction) facilitate the matching of parties to a transaction and reduce transaction costs. Technology can also affect the incentives for intermediaries to be horizontally or vertically integrated (offer multiple services to endusers as does a universal bank or acquire upstream suppliers). Finally technology can alter barriers to entry for new intermediaries to compete against incumbents. In this context we look at two technologies artificial intelligence and blockchain or distributed ledger technology and their impact on financial inclusion in India. Artificial IntelligenceArtificial  intelligence  (AI)  has  been  defined as the theory and development of computer systems able to perform tasks requiring human intelligence. The origin of AI goes back to the 1950s when Alan Turing published a paper on possibility of machines with true intelligence. AI has been  defined  as    the  scientific  understanding of the mechanisms underlying thought  and  intelligent  behaviour  and their  embodiment  in  machines     (Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI).3 The array of technologies in AI includes audio processing knowledge representation  speechtotext  deep  learning expert  systems  natural  language  processing machinelearning (ML) robotics and symbolic logic. It is a general purpose technology. Many of these have the potential to be applied in the fintech sector and promotion of financial inclusion. Their popularity picked up after 2011 when IBM Microsoft Google and Facebook started investing in AI and machine learning for commercial applications. The commonest use is via machine learning which is essentially understood as computers learn from data and can predict patterns in the data. It enables humanlike intelligence and learning capacities to overcome the current limitations of capital and labour (Accenture 2017). Use of artificial intelligence in finance Fintech companies are using AI applications  to  advance  consumer  protection and user experience manage risk detect fraud etc. in the country. Other prominent areas of use include credit scoring chat bots capital optimization market impact analysis trade signaling and    reg tech    applications. Customer support and helpdesk Chat bots are increasingly being adopted by Indian financial organizations to increase efficiency  and  reduce  cost  of  customer support     e.g. HDFC Bank   s EVA (Electronic Virtual Assistant) City Union Bank   s Lakshmi chatbot etc.Fraud detection Anomaly detection to prevent frauds and improve monitoring  e.g. National Stock Exchange intends to use machine learning to identify market patterns  to  improving  monitoring  and prevent manipulation of its highfrequency trading (HFT) markets.Risk  Management  More  personalized products  to  clients  based  on  historical data risk analysis minimizing human errors.Security AIenabled cyber security systems to guard against and prevent possible security breaches.Wealth management Robo advisors that provide automated financial planning services like   tax planning advice insurance advice health investment advice  etc. HDFC uses AI for its Mobile Banking App  and  OnChat  which  uses  Natural Language  Processing  where  users  can interact  confirm  and  pay  for  services within chat. It is also planning to develop AI solutions for Customer Support Process Automation HR Security and Fraud Detection.With respect to AI the biggest hurdle to innovation and largescale application is financial investment. Access to funding  is  a  concern  for  many  developers and those seeking to use applications. As pointed out by Accenture (2017) combinations  of  technologies  multivariant data and interdisciplinary skills are quite often not in the possession of any single player. This could limit the market to few large players who could successfully navigate the landscape and could cause an oligopolistic  market  (Accenture  2017). Hence there is a need to strengthen research and development in AI to ensure ease of entry and sharing of technological breakthroughs. The Financial Stability Board (FSB 2017) points out that the black box aspect of AI might also be problematic. There is lack of clarity with respect to ethical considerations responsibility governance and regulation in such applications. The rapid pace of adoption of AI in the industry calls for regulatory oversight and policy intervention. The possibility of an open source platform that shares AI frameworks and tools  needs  to  be  explored  (Accenture 2017). Integration of AI may also render 3 https//aitopics.org/tag/artificial%20intelligence12   TECH MONITOR     JanMar 2019Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in India many jobs obsolete but open up new ones. This warrants skilling of a future workforce and retraining of existing workforce. Most importantly regulatory practices have to be  stepped  up  to  ensure  that  developments and innovations follow fair market practices. A range of legal issues related to privacy and data protection consumer protection antidiscrimination and liability issues and crossborder issues may arise with further development in the industry. Fintech companies are increasingly relying on Artificial Intelligencebased technologies  to  expand  the  unsecured  loan business and tap clients who were previously unserviceable; however it is too early in the day to assess how this is working. BlockchainBlockchain    is a particular type of data structure used in some distributed ledgers which stores and transmits data in packages called    blocks    that are connected to each other in a digital    chain   . Blockchains employ  cryptographic  and  algorithmic methods to record and synchronize data across a network in an immutable manner    (World  Bank  2017).  Distributed  Ledger Technology (DLT) also known as blockchain technology refers to a protocol that allows peertopeer transfer of assets over the internet. DLT is a novel way of sharing data across multiple data stores (or ledgers) (World Bank 2017). The shared database allows peertopeer transaction without requiring a central authority. This technology creates an immutable ledger of all activity across peertopeer transactions.4  Transactions  through  the DLT are cryptographically logged in    blocks    of data which when verified by members of the distributed network creates a permanent  record  of  the  transactions.  The network is both a medium of transactions and a means of recording it since the blockchain file belongs to all members of it (Botton 2018). The peertopeer system means that information can only be modified by a majority of members thus making it secure.The  technology  is  characterized  by decentralized  networks  absolute  digitization and realtime transfer.  There are no intermediaries and trustless exchange maintenance of high quality data with reliability longevity and immutability; process integrity and transparency; fast transactions enabling reduced costs required for settlement. The promise of tamperproof recordkeeping and data security makes it possible for banks to transition from an independent  ledger  to  a  universal  and encrypted distributed ledger system and also  improve  upon  their  product  offerings. Distributed ledger technology can be used to execute  transactions in real time by making  irreversible/undeletable transaction entries into DLT copy which would be available to all participating entities. There  are  five  key  components  of  a Blockchain  Cryptography5 Peertopeer network6 Consensus Mechanism7 Distributed Ledger8 and Validity rules.9 Network participants can independently verify the state and integrity of a blockchain. There  are  permissioned  blockchain and  permissionless  blockchain  in  the former  only  authorized  members  are part of the network; here it is possible to customize access control structures and consensus  algorithms  that  is  who  can view what and who verifies what can be controlled. Permissioned blockchain has greater potential for adoption in the near future than permissionless chains.Specific  areas  with  the  potential  for application include maintenance of KYC records application of the DLT Blockchain Cryptography and Smart Contracts.10 The technology can successfully be applied in payment processes.11 Smart contracts Smart contracts (computer  programs)  would  be  one  of  the most  immediate  applications  in  financial services. They would emulate regular contractual constructs and could be made partially or fully selfexecuting self enforcing or both. Such smart contracts could replace standing instructions electronic clearing service (ECS) etc.4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11   https//digitalchamber.org/assets/blockchainandfinancialinclusion.pdfhttps//digitalchamber.org/assets/blockchainandfinancialinclusion.pdf  A variety of cryptographic techniques including oneway hash functions ensures near full proof security. This is achieved by using publicprivate key combinations to generate the hash value so that information is visible to and can be processed only by the person for whom it is intended. Equally privileged and capable participants in the blockchain.  An algorithm that determines the ordering of transactions in an environment that ensures the parties follow the protocol and prevent unethical practices. This helps maintain the single state of the transactions. A list of transactions of assets grouped together in cryptographically linked    blocks     A smart contract can be conceptualized as    a computerized transaction protocol that executes the terms of a contract. The general objectives are to satisfy common contractual conditions (such as payment terms liens confidentiality and even enforcement) minimize exceptions both malicious and accidental and minimize the need for trusted intermediaries    (Cong and He 2018). Smart contracts are one of the most anticipated applications of blockchain technology. Smart contracts often emulate the logic of regular contractual constructs and therefore many kinds of contractual clauses can be made partially or fully selfexecuting selfenforcing or both. Payments Smart contracts can replace standing instructions electronic clearing services and bill payments. A common set of rules of the network (for example what transactions are considered valid how the ledger gets updated).  Ripple and Tangle are two other important DLTs. Ripple uses a consensus ledger to confirm transactions and is being used among banks as a worldwide payment system. Tangle was created for B2B models while Ripple simplifies settlement. Tangle   s verification method removes transacting costs. Both are nonmineable. See https//stockhax.com/blog/distributedledger/TECH MONITOR     JanMar 2019    13Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in India Authentication  Blockchain  could  also be  used  to  authenticate  identities  and documents through a digital blockchain recorded version. This would have applications in KYC authentication due diligence etc. A central KYC is a related use case in which Blockchain can have a potential use.Blockchain cannot be implemented in all use cases for digitization or to all transaction related problems. It is most useful when multiple parties share data and need a view of common information. Blockchain can be employed as an effective solution if at least three out of following prerequisites are met (PwC 2018) Multiple parties share data     Multiple parties need a common view of the information at hand. Multiple parties update data  When actions undertaken by multiple parties need to be recorded and the data coming from multiple parties needs to be updated. Requirement for verification  When it is necessary to build trust amongst parties and make them understand that their actions that are being recorded are valid.Intermediaries add complexity  When a transaction is dependent on multiple intermediaries and their presence increases the cost and complexity of the transaction.Interactions are time sensitive  When it is beneficial for the business to reduce delay and expedite a transaction. Transactions  interact   When  transactions  created  by  multiple  participants interact and depend on each other. The most important features of Blockchain with respect to payment processes would be reduced turnaround time (no more intermediary/ faster authentication) increased  transparency  reduced  costs and faster reconciliation. It also leads to reduced risks data auditability and resilience. Transfer of value via blockchain takes approximately 10 minutes which might not work for retail payment in developed economies but in developing countries might increase the speed of transactions significantly. Reduction or elimination of operational  and  financial  inefficiencies and  other  frictions  including  improved endtoend settlement speed. Use of blockchain/ DLT in finance DLT and blockchain technologies are of immense  importance  to  the  financial services industry because of which there is much interest in its use among stakeholders in the Indian Banking Financial Service and Insurance (BFSI) industry. Currently it is tested largely in applications to do with information sharing. Popular use cases  which  have  gained  traction  with the Indian industry are intrabank applications  authentication  and  document management trade finance and invoice discounting applications without a native currency.12 Some of the use cases of blockchain in India include (Iyer and Kumar 2018)    \\tMonetaGo (in trade)    \\tICICI Yes and Axis Bank (in Proofs of Concept)   \\tNSE collaboration with banks such as ICICI IDFC on KYC POC    \\tUnocoin  and  Coinsecure  (Bitcoin exchanges and wallet)    \\tEzyRemit (remittance solutions)    \\tSignZy  (document  storage  signing and validation) The IndiaChain initiative of the NITI Aayog  is  a  much  anticipated  development. The NITI (2017) has reported that    NITI is parallely working on a platform called    IndiaChain which will be a shared Indiaspecific  blockchain  infrastructure utilising  the  power  of  the  JanDhan Yojana Aadhaar and Mobile trinity and enable  blockchain  developers  to  build social applications.    This platform which is expected to be linked with India Stack could  provide  the  muchneeded  boost to adoption of blockchain technology in India. Having realized the potential of these innovative technologies banks finance companies and microfinance institutions are scaling up their expertise and integrating them into operational models. The sector   s evolution and growth is very rapid and is expected to bring in new business models  products  and  services  change consumer preferences and market structure. The regulators    attention has been drawn towards reviewing and reorienting the relevant regulatory framework. Establishment of the interregulatory Working Group on Fin Tech and Digital Banking and publishing of white papers and initiatives by the Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT) are steps in this direction. Many companies already use many of these technologies to better access and serve previously excluded or underserved customers in the financial sector. It is also argued that an optimal mix of the human touch element along with the adoption of  digital  solutions  promotes  access  to and  usage  of  financial  services.  For  instance banking agents and employees can facilitate in bridging the gap between awareness and usage of digital financial services. Agents can help their customers understand different financial processes and  products  and  ensure  that  no  one is  left  out  in  the  digital  financial  revolution.13   It can be used to provide specific solutions to problems faced by the unbanked to help them through tailored solutions.14 These products are useful to current consumers and can also bring in the unbanked and underbanked to financial area. Financial inclusionFinancial inclusion refers to the number of adults having access to banking or financial services. The Global Findex Survey 12 13 14   Digital currencies and crypto assets such as Bitcoin Etherium central bankissued digital currencies etc. are applications with native currency.  For details see Accenture (2015)    Branching out The case for the human touch in banking    by Frederic Brunier and Stefano Trombetta     https//www.accenture.com/t00010101T000000__w__/gben/_acnmedia/Accenture/ConversionAssets/DotCom/Documents/Global/PDF/Dualpub_12/AccentureHumanTouchBanking.pdf ibid14   TECH MONITOR     JanMar 2019Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in India (Demirg    Kunt et al. 2018) reported that in the 15+ age group 79.9% of the population had accounts with financial institutions in year 2017. This meant a strong growth  compared  to  53.1%  reported in the previous edition of the survey in 2014 and 35.2% in 2011. Nearly half of the world   s adult population (or 3.5 billion people) are unbanked and under banked (with limited or nontransactional access to finance). Of these 1.7 billion adults in the  world  without  an  account  China India Pakistan and Indonesia account for the largest unbanked persons. The first step towards financial inclusion is having an account. Increasingly digital payments are being used for financial transactions. Ethiopia and India stand out for low use of digital payments only about a third of account owners in these two countries reported making or receiving at least one digital payment in the past 12 months. In other developing economies 19 percent of adults (30 percent of account owners) reported  making  at  least  one  financial transaction in the past year using a mobile money account a mobile phone or the internet. However this figure masks large differences between countries. In economies where a large share of adults have a mobile money account such as Kenya and Tanzania the use of a mobile phone to make transactions through an account is close to universal among account owners in Kenya 88 percent of account owners (72 percent of adults) reported using a mobile phone or the internet to make a transaction through their account in the past year. By contrast in India less than 10 percent of account owners reported doing so. In China 49 percent of account owners (40 percent of adults) reported using a mobile phone to make a financial transaction. Debit  card  ownership  and  use  vary considerably  across  developing  economies. 100 million adults with an inactive account have a debit card while nearly 2.5 times as many while 240 million have an inactive account plus a mobile phone. Brazil China Malaysia Russia and Turkey follow the general pattern among developing economies of relatively high debit card ownership and use with about half of those with a debit card using it to make a direct purchase in the past year. In India and Kenya by contrast less than half of account owners have a debit card and among those who do only about a third used it to make a direct purchase.Making or receiving digital payments is one important use of an account. Saving is another. Few people however reported using their account for saving but not also for making or receiving digital payments in the past year. In India the share was 7 percent. Most relied on money from working or family and friends as the main source of emergency funds in many developing economies.  Money  from  working  was most commonly cited as the main source of funds in China Indonesia and Tanzania while family or friends were given as the main  source  in  Brazil  Egypt  and  India (Demirg    Kunt et al. 2018). About 56% of all unbanked persons in the world were women in 2017. In India three years ago men were 20 percentage points more likely than women to have an account. Today India   s gender gap has shrunk to 6 percentage points. This has been due to a strong government push to increase account ownership through biometric identification cards (Demirg    Kunt et al. 2018). Technology has been helpful in achieving gender parity and reduced the gap between richer and poorer adults. The Jan Dhan Yojana (JDY) scheme developed by the government to increase account ownership. Launched in August 2014 the program had brought an additional 310 million  Indians  into  the  formal  banking system  by  March  2018  many  of  whom might not yet have had an opportunity to use their new account.  The financial inclusion  programmes  in  India  include policies undertaken by the government (like PMJDY launch of Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) and UPI) measures taken by the Reserve Bank of India (like the banking correspondent model and launch of financial literacy programme). How can AI help in financial inclusion?15AI  to  build  credit  history     Artificial 15  https//www.edgeverve.com/blog/artificialintelligencefinancialinclusion/ intelligence can be used to collect information on various indicators which can then be used to create credit history of customers. The information collected could be on crop turnover Aadhar linked data GPS data handset details insurance etc. to build credit scores for customers. The system can recommend a smaller value loan and then to top up further based on the renewed credit worthiness reestimated by the AI machine.AI as a relationship manager   Artificial intelligence can be used as a relationship manager. HDFC has already introduced a chatbot for this purpose. Most of the bank staff have urban orientation and do not have inclination and patience to talk to the rural customer. Natural Regional Language processing based AI trained robot to train and talk to the rural customers in regional language explain them about banking products can also discuss about the amount of the debt that they have and suggest how much do they need to save. AI trained Robots can become their financial advisors.AI  assisted  lifestyle  based  banking    Another way in which AI can be used is to assist in the financial literacy endeavours. There are a number of government schemes like Gram Sadak Yojna Swachh Bharat  Abhiyan  Mahatma  Gandhi  National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) etc. where the incentives go through  the  Pradhan  Mantri  Jan  Dhan accounts. Banks can use feeds of all such incentive payments data from the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) database into the AI engine and come up with the best possible products the customer can be offered. How can blockchain help in financial inclusion? Opening an account       Individuals  can open an account or deposit cash through their phones. Usability  of  an  account       Transfer  of funds using blockchain takes 10 minutes which is faster compared to such transfers through conventional means in developing countries Costs  to  the  financial  institutions       Payments via blockchain do not need to TECH MONITOR     JanMar 2019    15Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in India go through the national payments system and hence there is no need of physical branches. The cost of transfer of funds is a percentage of the value of the transferred and makes payments more feasible. Currency risk  Individuals and SMEs have the option of adding funds in the fiat currency. This shift the volatility risk to the financial intermediary (FI). FIs are using bitcoin as vehicle currency     the dollar is the dominant vehicle currency and used in  88%  of  trades.  Using  boitcoin  as  vehicle currency and blockchain   s platforms means that the recipient and the sender are not exposed to the volatility of the virtual currency. Conclusion In  this  article  we  examine  how  AI  and blockchain technologies can contribute to financial inclusion. While the potential of blockchain technology in general and smart contracts in particular to make financial services more efficient cost effective and inclusive is not disputed there is concern with respect to scalability interoperability cost impact and regulation. Lack of understanding and expertise also create cultural barriers making movement away from legacy system more difficult. Blockchain  technology  can  be  a  game changer if it is widely adopted and there is agreement on the technology architecture that needs to be put in place for its adoption. As far as AI is concerned it is a nascent technology and there are challenges such as transaction speed verification process and data limits. Its regulatory status is uncertain and there are integration concerns (within an organization on account of the existing ecosystem) scarcity of talent and costs involved. The potential of both these technologies in achieving greater financial inclusion is undoubtedly clear. Whether that will happen will depend on many factors including those highlighted above as well as how quickly these technologies are adopted by most fintech players. References  9   Accenture (2015). Branching out The case  for  the  human  touch  in  banking by Frederic Brunier and Stefano Trombetta  https//www.accenture.com/t00010101T000000__w__/gben/_acnmedia/Accenture/ConversionAssets/DotCom/Documents/Global/PDF/Dualpub_12/AccentureHumanTouchBanking.pdf  9   Accenture  (2017).  Embracing  artificial intelligence enabling strong and inclusive AI driven economic growth. Available at https//www.accenture.com  /t20170614T130615Z__w__/usen/_acnmedia/Accenture/nextgen5/eventg20yeasummit/pdfs/AccentureIntelligentEconomy.pdf 9   Botton  N.  (2018)  Blochchain  and Trade Not a Fix for Brexit but Could Revolutionise  Global  Value  Chains (If Governments Let it) ECIPE Newsletter.  http//ecipe.org/publications/blockchainandtrade/?mc_cid=4cd309bff6&mc_eid=f7c9b1f07b 9   Cong  L W  and  Z.  He  (2018).  Blockchain disruption and smart contracts. Working Paper 24399 NBER Working Paper Series. National Bureau of Economic Research Cambridge.  9   Demirg    Kunt A. Klapper L.; Singer D.; Ansar S.; and Hess J. (2018). The Global Findex Database 2017 Measuring Financial Inclusion and the Fintech Revolution.  Washington  DC  World Bank. doi10.1596/9781464812590. License Creative Commons Attribution CC BY 3.0 IGO. 9   2nd Asia Pacific Region Alternative Finance  Industry  Report  (2017)  Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance at the University of Cambridge and the  Australian  Centre  for  Financial Studies at the University of Monash Business School in Australia  Tsinghua  University  in  China  and  Zhejiang  University  in  China.  https//home.kpmg/au/en/home/insights/2017/09/cultivatinggrowthasiapacificalternativefinancereport.html 9   FSB Financial Stability Board (2017). Artificial  intelligence  and  machine learning in financial services Market developments  and  financial  stability  implications.  Available  at  http//www.fsb.org/wpcontent/uploads/P011117.pdf 9   IDRBT.  Institute  for  Development and Research in Banking Technology (2017).  Applications  of  Blockchain technology to banking and financial sector  in  India.    IDRBT  Hyderabad India. 9   Iyer   K. V. and VV Ravi Kumar (2018) Blockchain Bitcoin and Crytpocurrency Explained Economic and Political Weekly http//www.epw.in/engage/article/blockchainevolutionmoneythroughcryptocurrency 9   Mohammad G. and Owens J. (2016). Leveraging Fintech to Achieve Financial Inclusion in Indonesia. Available at  http//blog.microsave.net/leveragingfintechtoachievefinancialinclusioninindonesia/ 9   OICOIOSCO (2017). IOSCO Research Report  on  Financial  Technologies (Fintech).    Accessed  from  https//www.iosco.org/library/pubdocs/pdf/IOSCOPD554.pdf  9   PwC (2018). Blockchain The next innovation to make our cities smarter.  9   World Bank (2017). Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) and Blockchain. The World Bank Washington. Available at http//documents.worldbank.org/curated/en  /177911513714062215/pdf/122140WPPUBLICDistributedLedgerTechnologyandBlockchainFintechNotes.pdf    16   TECH MONITOR     JanMar 2019Use of blockchain and aritificial intelligence to promote financial inclusion in India '