b'herein fileWhat Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2. What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2. ResearchinProgress Yeong Yoon Chow Khairul Shafee Kalid Savita K Sugathan Noreen Izza binti Arshad Abstract The  nascent  blockchain  technology  that  sparked  the  advent  of  cryptocurrency  has been  receiving  heightened  attention  from  practitioners  and  scholars.  With  the unpredictable cryptocurrency value the controversy surrounding the cryptocurrency hype  remains  vigorous.  However  less  academic  research  has  investigated  the individual  cryptocurrency  acceptance  behavior  especially  in  developing  country context.  Drawing  on  the  literature  on  blockchain  cryptocurrency  ebanking  and Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology2 (UTAUT2) this paper aims to propose a model that integrates cryptocurrency dimension antecedents and UTAUT2 constructs to examine the factors that influence individual cryptocurrency acceptance behavior  in  Malaysia.  This  study  employs  a  quantitative  approach  by  collecting online survey questionnaire data  to  evaluate the proposed model using  partial  least square structural equation modeling (PLSSEM) approach. This paper appears as a valuable  contribution  that  provides  regulators  and  cryptocurrency  practitioners  a highlevel overview of potential individual cryptocurrency acceptance factors. Keywords  blockchain. cryptocurrency acceptance conceptual model Malaysia UTAUT2 Introduction The  rapid  advancements  in  technology  driven  by  the  internet  revolution  profoundly  affected  the global  financial  market  in  the  1990s  (Lee  and  Shin  2018). Since  then  financial  technology  (fintech) has emerged as a new term to describe the embracement of novel technologies that transform financial activities to be more effective and  efficient (Gai Keke et al. 2018). According to Milian et al. (2019) existing fintech  literature shows the  most  discussed subjects included  network  externality  electronic banking  cryptocurrency  big  data  and  biometrics  authentication.  The  most  recent  technology  has been  introduced  to  fintech  is  blockchain.  One  undeniable  fact  is  that  the  blockchain  technology  is wellknown due to the cryptocurrency hype which comes into place in 2008 (Nakamoto 2008).  To date blockchain technology is still at its infancy stage and the fluctuation of cryptocurrency value remains debatable. In spite of that this does not repel the fact that this technology and cryptocurrency serves  as  an  enabling  force  for  economics  transformation  which  has  the  ability  to  transform  the conventional financial services (Morkunas et al. 2018). Beyond the financial sector blockchainbased solutions  have  been  deployed  in  a  wide  array  of  contexts.  For  instance  there  is  electronic  medical record  system  (Chen  et  al.  2019;  Wanitcharakkhakul  and  Rotchanakitumnuai  2017)  supply  chain (CasadoVaraa  et  al.  2018;  Chang  et  al.  2019)  manufacturing  (Liu  et  al.  2017;  Zhang  et  al.  2017) intelligent transportation system (Ao et al. 2017; Kang et al. 2017; Kato et al. 2018) TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019   What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2.  In fintech context the extant blockchain literature has pointed various advantages of this technology which  is  evident  in  the  advent  of  cryptocurrency.  Cryptocurrency  is     a  peertopeer  version  of electronic cash that allows online payment to be sent directly from one party to another without going through  a  financial  institution     (Crosby  et  al.  2016).  The  most  mentioned  benefits  include decentralization (Ermakova et al. 2016; Walton and Johnston 2018) low transaction fees (Baur et al. 2015; Seetharaman  et  al.  2017) and  speedy  transaction  (Gao  et  al.  2016;  Sas and  Khairuddin  2017). However  the  negative  sentiment  associated  with  cryptocurrency  is  alarming  when  it  is  involved  in money laundering illegal marketplaces and cyber hacking (Zulhuda and Sayuti 2017).  Global  regulators  are  yet  to  assimilated  into  a  standardized  regulatory  framework  because  the regulators    stance on the legitimacy of cryptocurrency remains ambiguity (Pieters and Vivanco 2017). Considering  the  uncertainty  future  of  cryptocurrency  and  the  radical  skepticism  about  its  price fluctuations it becomes interesting to investigate on individuals    behavior when it comes to accepting and  adopting  cryptocurrency.  The  emerging  literature  has  reported  cryptocurrency  acceptance  and adoption studies in the context of developed countries especially European countries (Ermakova et al. 2016; Roos 2015; Wahl 2016). However the cryptocurrency acceptance behavior and the factors that drive  such  acceptance  has  so  far  limitedly  explored  especially  in  the  developing  country  context (Henry et al. 2018; Kick and Connolly 2015). While the Malaysian government officially launched a regulatory  framework  to  monitor  cryptocurrency  exchange  businesses  on  15th  January  2019  it  is envisaged that cryptocurrency will still be around for the foreseeable future. Hence it is of paramount importance  to  grasp  the  understanding  of  cryptocurrency  acceptance  behavior  before  a  wellestablished  cryptocurrency  system  can  come  into  place.  To achieve  this  this  study  strives  to  answer the following research question What are the drivers of cryptocurrency acceptance in Malaysia? On top of that this study aims to provide the blockchain and cryptocurrency enthusiasts with a better understanding of the acceptance pattern and behavior resides in the Malaysians (individual level). The study  seeks  to  encourage  merchants  to  ponder  upon  the  business  opportunities  granted  by  the implementation  of  cryptocurrencyfriendly  payment  system.  This  also  adds  a  competitive  advantage and  value  to  their  businesses  by  integrating  the  business  model  with  innovative  financial  solutions. While  cryptocurrency  presents  a  new  paradigm  of  transactions  this  study  paves  the  way  for individuals to stay abreast of this digital  era where blockchainbased solutions are receiving  massive attention.  With  respect  to  regulators  this  study  provides  valuable  insight  into  developing  a sophisticated  and  holistic  governance  model.  From  a  technical  point  of  view  this  study  potentially helps  blockchainbased  financial  solution  developers  to  contemplate  the  current  issues  of  payment system towards the development of an ideal and secure payment system. Additionally this study also flourishes the literature on blockchain fintech and IT adoption.  Theoretical Background1 Technology Acceptance and Adoption Theories With  the  rapid  progression  of  information  and  communication  technologies  technology  acceptance theories  became  essential  to  help  understanding  acceptance  and  adoption  behaviors.  Since  the  past decades  scholars  have  dedicated  significant  efforts  to  build  robust  technology  acceptance  models. These  include  Theory  of  Reasoned  Action  (TRA)    Technology  Acceptance  Model  (TAM)  (Davis 1989) Model of PC Utilization (MPCU) (Thompson et al. 1991) Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) (Azjen  1991)  Social  Cognitive  Theory  (SCT)  (Compeau  and  Higgins  1995)  Innovation  Diffusion Theory  (IDT)  (Moore  and  Benbasat  1991)  Unified  Theory  of  Acceptance  and  Use  of  Technology (UTAUT/2) (Venkatesh et al. 2003; Venkatesh et al. 2012). In order to build a solid theoretical foundation for this study the theories were reviewed to decide on the  most  suitable  theory  to  be  adapted  into  the  cryptocurrency  acceptance  context.  TRA  SCT  and TPB  focus  on  how  social  factors  influence  a  person   s  behavior.  In  another  word  the  technological factor  which  is  important  to  this  novel  financial  innovation  is  disregarded.  Moreover  the  constructs embedded  in  TAM  are  not  comprehensive  enough  to  address  cryptocurrency  acceptance.  MPCU specifically deals with the factors that impact a worker   s use of computer at the workplace. While the evolution  of  cryptocurrency  is  frequently  growing  IDT  requires  relatively  static  input  to  predict individuals     behavior.  Meanwhile  the  original  UTAUT  model  emphasizes  on  the  organizational  TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019    What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2.  context  which  does  not  take  individual  behavioral  factor  into  consideration.  Overall  this  study  does not opt for these mentioned theories to understand cryptocurrency acceptance. In  this  vein  the  UTAUT2  model  which  extended  from  UTAUT  has  appeared  to  us  as  the  most suitable approach because it is a robust and comprehensive model that focuses on individual context. It  also  deals  with  technological  and  social  factors.  From  a  good  number  of  existing  studies  the UTAUT2 model has been proven to work in understanding the acceptance of numerous technologies. For instance the patients    use of laboratory electronic portal (Ravangard et al. 2017) mobile internet for mobile users (Kralji   and Pe  tek 2016) internet banking application for elderly people (Jorge et al. 2015;  Moura  et  al.  2017)  and  learning  management  system  (Ain  et  al.  2016)  as  well  as  Google classroom  for  university  students  (Jakkaew  and  Hemrungrote  2017).  These  literature  shows  that  the model  was  partially  or  fully  supported  by  the  hypothesized  relationships  in  different  contexts. Additionally  existing  empirical  studies  have  demonstrated  that  online  survey  questionnaire  is  a feasible  data  collection  tool  for  cryptocurrency  acceptance  and  adoption  studies  (Abramova  and B  hme 2016; Gunawan and Novendra 2017; Shahzad et al. 2018). Proposed Research Model While the original UTAUT2 model that examined the use of mobile internet which has appeared as a generally  widespread  technology  in  the  current  era  this  study  sparks  the  literature  by  examining  the more  recent  and  novel  blockchainbased  cryptocurrency.  Given  that  Venkatesh  et  al.  (2012)  has conducted the  original  UTAUT2 study in a developed country context (i.e. Hong Kong China) this present work aims to bridge this gap by targeting a developing country context (i.e. Malaysia). Since both  types  of  country  is  different  in  terms  of  the  progression  of  technological  infrastructure  and  the economic status it is worth examining how the findings will be altered from the original study. On  the  other  hand  Dwivedi  et  al.  (2017)  have  reported  that  the  moderators  in  UTAUT  model  (i.e. gender  age  and  experience)  were  typically  dropped  and  one  possible  reason  is  that  the  effect  of moderators  does  not  bring  a  significant  variation  for  technology  acceptance  and  adoption  context. While the nature of this study is longitudinal prior literature shows that it is inappropriate to include Experience  as the  moderator  due  to  the  incompetency  of  acquiring  the  respondents     increasing  level of experience at different points of a time period (Jorge et al. 2015).  This  study  considers  the  novelty  and  recency  of  cryptocurrency  can  result  in  a  lack  of  individual interactions and familiarity  with the  use of cryptocurrency which is inadequate  to form the different habit level. Hence the construct Habit was excluded. Adhering to the research objective of examining the  cryptocurrency  acceptance  behavior  the  Behavioral  Intention  is  sufficient  to  measure  the  degree of acceptance and thus Usage Behavior was eliminated. The exclusion of Usage Behavior is supported by  prior  studies  (Nikolopoulos  and  Likothanassis  2017;  Queiroz  and  Wamba  2019).  Also  it  is inappropriate to include Usage Behavior construct while this study does  not  delineate the passage of time from how the individuals transform their initial intention to the actual use of cryptocurrency.  In  addition  to  the  constructs  originally  embedded  in  UTAUT2  the  proposed  model  includes  three cryptocurrency dimension antecedents. Considering the legitimacy of cryptocurrency has not reached an  international  consensus  this  study  sought  to  include  Government  Regulation  to  take  the  role  of regulators into consideration.  Another aspect is that this study considers  cryptocurrency features that make  it  unique  from  the  conventional  currency  by  including  Transaction  Features  as  a  predictor  of individual acceptance behavior. Besides the inclusion of Price Volatility  is of paramount importance because  the  fluctuations  in  cryptocurrency  value  ha5s  resulted  in  a  deep  skepticism.  In  a  nutshell these make up an original contribution to the field of technology acceptance study in Malaysia.  Conceptual Model A  conceptual  model  was  derived  based  on  the  literature  on  blockchain  cryptocurrency  electronic banking and technology acceptance studies. Figure 1 displays the illustration of the conceptual model which is used towards the development of hypotheses statements.  TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019    What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2.   Hypotheses Development Figure 1. Proposed Conceptual Model The  flaws  and  drawbacks  of  the  current  digital  payment  solution  (e.g.  credit  card  PayPal) have led to a novel approach to digital payment blockchainbased cryptocurrency (Baur et al. 2015).  Apart from the first cryptocurrency (i.e. Bitcoin) there are over thousands of viable alternatives which have  different  strengths.  The  unique  and  novel  cryptocurrency  features  included  but  not  limited  to improved  transaction  speed  (Gao  et  al.  2016;  Gunawan  and  Novendra  2017;  MendozaTello  et  al. 2018) lower transaction costs for remittances (Ermakova et al. 2016; Folkinshteyn and Lennon 2017) anonymity and privacy (Seetharaman et al. 2017; Shehhi et al. 2014)as well as intermediaries removal (Gao  et  al.  2016;  Walton  and  Johnston  2018).  While  these  features  are  expected  to  be  beneficial  for consumers this study postulates the following hypothesis H1 Cryptocurrency   s transaction features (TF) influence Performance Expectancy (PE) positively. While  the  legitimacy  of  cryptocurrency  remains  debatable  among  global  regulators  (Bollen 2016; Pieters  and  Vivanco  2017) the  establishment  of regulations  by  regulators  play  a  decisive  role for  mass  acceptance  and  adoption  (Shahzad  et  al.  2018). The  study  argues  that  the  exchange  rate  of Bitcoin  versus  US  dollar  will  increase  significantly  if  the  regulators     support  comes  into  place (Seetharaman  et  al.  2017).  Malaysian  regulators  have  shown  their  support  by  allocating  investment fund  for  peertopeer  financing  platforms  at  the  same  time  safeguarding  the  public  interest  by establishing the regulations to govern cryptocurrency exchanges and initial coin offerings which came into  force  on  15th  January  2019  (Zmudzinski  2019).  Since  this  standpoint  might  encourage  the development of technological infrastructure (e.g. digital exchange platform digital wallet application) to support the cryptocurrencybased payment system this study hypothesizes that H2 Cryptocurrency   s government regulations (GR) influence Facilitating Conditions (FC) positively. Unlike the governmentcontrolled Malaysian Ringgit (MYR) Bank Rakyat Malaysia does not control the supply of cryptocurrency. Hence it is inevitable that the cryptocurrency  market is  highly volatile  as  compared  to  the  conventional  fiat  currency  (Berentsen  and  Sch  r  2018).  It  is  undeniable that  the  cryptocurrency   s  price  fluctuations  incur  fear  within  individuals  (Baur  et  al.  2015).  On  the other  hand  a  surprising  finding  shows  that  a  drastic  increase  in  price  volatility  attracts  individual adoption behavior for monetary gain (Farell 2015; Henry et al. 2018). Besides Urquhart (2018) found that  the  volatility  and  trading  volume  of  cryptocurrency  significantly  drives  public  attention.  This study  argues  that  the  price  volatility  will  affect  a  user   s  perception  of  the  cryptocurrency  value because its monetary cost fluctuates in line with its price. Hence the following hypothesis is formed H3 Cryptocurrency   s price volatility (PVL) influences Price Value (PV) positively. As discussed cryptocurrency leverages on blockchain technology  to appear as an alternative digital  payment  system  with  unique  transaction  features  to  address  the  drawbacks  of  traditional financial  services.  Therefore  it  is  expected  that  users  can  gain  prominent  benefits  from cryptocurrency adoption. Kumpajaya and Dhewanto (2015) and Shahzad  et al. (2018) suggested that the  acknowledgment  of  the  perceived  usefulness  of  cryptocurrency  in  daily  life  plays  a  role  in cryptocurrency acceptance and adoption behavior. With that the hypothesis is formed as below  TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019    What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2.  H4  Performance  Expectancy  (PE)  has  a  positive  impact  on  Behavioral  Intention  (BI)  to  use cryptocurrency. As  a  new  paradigm  in  the  field  of  fintech  newly  launched  in  late  2008  (Nakamoto  2008) cryptocurrency is still at its immature landscape. Despite it is unnecessary to understand the backend of  cryptocurrency  system  to  use  cryptocurrency  some  basic  technical  and  financial  knowledge  is necessary  to  deal  with  the  digital  wallet  and  exchange  platforms.  Existing  cryptocurrency  studies show  that  the  knowledge  about  cryptocurrency  system  may  decrease  the  chance  of  being  scammed (Abramova  and  B  hme  2016;  Shehhi  et  al.  2014).  In  line  with  the  study  of  Henry  et  al.  (2018)  and Kumpajaya  and  Dhewanto  (2015)  cryptocurrency  acceptance  behavior  depends  on  the  individual   s belief about perceived ease of cryptocurrency use. This study hypothesizes that H5 Effort Expectancy (EE) has a positive impact on Behavioral Intention (BI) to use cryptocurrency. One of the success factors for the cryptocurrency is attributed to the large network  effects as the consumption of social media is increasing steadily (Walton and Johnston 2018). Prior studies have shown that social influence has a great impact on individual acceptance behavior because people tend to gather information and listen to advice from other people related to a product or service before the actual adoption (Megadewandanu et al. 2016). In line with that Zhang et al. (2018) recommended that a widespread  electronic banking acceptance could be achieved through the power of  wordofmouth. Considering money is much a societal and psychological context it is anticipated that social attention is one of the important drivers of cryptocurrency acceptance. This leads to the following hypothesis H6 Social Influence (SI) has a positive impact on Behavioral Intention (BI) to use cryptocurrency. Based  on  the  findings  of  Queiroz  and  Wamba  (2019)  the  facilitating  condition  construct affects  blockchain  adoption  in  the  developed  country  (i.e.  the  USA)  but  plays  no  role  in  developing country  context  (i.e.  India).  This  is  because  developed  country  tends  to  have  adequate  facilitating conditions to support new technology whereas the lack of infrastructure in a developing country might become one  of the impediments. In contrast Gunawan and Novendra (2017) showed that facilitating condition  affects  cryptocurrency  use  in  Indonesia  and  individuals  are  satisfied  with  the  existing facilities  and  infrastructure  behind  the  use  of  cryptocurrency.  In  view  of  the  increasing  number  of blockchain  solutions  provider  in  Malaysia  it  is  worth  examining  how  the  availability  of  facilitating conditions impact cryptocurrency behavior. Hence this study hypothesizes that H7  Facilitating  Condition  (FC)  has  a  positive  impact  on  Behavioral  Intention  (BI)  to  use cryptocurrency. Apart  from  the  functionality  of  technology  as  one  of  the  extrinsic  motivation  factors  the original  UTAUT2  model  found  that  intrinsic  motivation  also  led  to  technology  acceptance  and adoption (Venkatesh et al. 2012). Megadewandanu et al. (2016) are in line with the original study and the  authors  suggested  that the  concept  of  gamification  can  fuse  into  the  mobile  wallet  application  to increase  hedonic  motivation.  While  cryptocurrency  can  be  used  as  a  transactional  currency  and  an investment asset for monetary gain it is predicted that this motivates individual engagement towards cryptocurrency. Another example of intrinsic  motivation  provided by cryptocurrency is the    sense of freedom     while  using  the  decentralized  and  anonymous  cryptocurrency  (Bashir  et  al.  2016).    The individual  curiosity  and  attractiveness  to  the  novel  blockchain  technology  and  cryptocurrency  also contributed to the increase hedonic motivation. This is hypothesized as follows H8  Hedonic  Motivation  (HM)  has  a  positive  impact  on  Behavioral  Intention  (BI)  to  use cryptocurrency.  At  the  individual  level  the  price  value  factor  should  be  taken  into  consideration  as  the individual who uses the technology will need to bear all the associated costs (Venkatesh et al. 2012). Previous  empirical  studies  have  shown  that  individual  behavioral  intention  to  adopt  mobile/  internet banking is impacted by the price value factor (Jorge et al. 2015; Mahfuz et al. 2016). Since the price of  cryptocurrency  is  determined  by  the  global  market  demand  and  supply  its  value  is  relatively volatile  and  unstable  as  compared  to  the  fiat  currency  (Berentsen  and  Sch  r  2018).  Therefore  this study proposes the following hypothesis  TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019    What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2.  H9 Price Value (PV) has a positive impact on Behavioral Intention (BI) to use cryptocurrency.  Methodology This  study  intends  to  investigate  the  factors  that  directly  and  indirectly  impact  cryptocurrency acceptance  behavior  at  the  individual  level.  Specifically  the  target  unit  of  analysis  focuses  on Malaysian  individuals  who  are  equipped  with  cryptocurrency  knowledge.  Following  a  quantitative methodology this study will use a survey questionnaire as data collection tool. Since cryptocurrency is  anonymous  in  nature  it  is  unable  to  retrieve  a  complete  list  of  individuals  who  are  accepting cryptocurrency.  Therefore  nonprobabilistic  sampling  method  (i.e.  purposive  sampling)  will  be employed with the aim of achieving theory generalization instead of sample generalization (Memon et al.  2017).  The  minimum  sample  size  required  for  actual  data  collection  is  279  which  is  calculated with Gpower software (Faul et al. 2007). With the  gathered survey  data the proposed  model  will be evaluated using PLSSEM with SmartPLS software (Hair et al. 2017; Ringle et al. 2015).  Conclusion With  the  disruptive  effects  that  brought  by  blockchain  technology  and  the  anticipated  impacts  of cryptocurrency  to  FinTech  field  this  study  is  timely  as  such  it  aims  to  understand  blockchainbased cryptocurrency  acceptance  whose  advantages  are  not  entirely  cleared  whose  skepticisms  are  still rising  and  whose  diffusion  path  remains  uncertain.  In  term  of  theoretical  contribution  this  study attempts to expand the usage of UTAUT2 to cryptocurrency context by proposing a model to enable a better understanding of how individuals behave towards cryptocurrency that leverages on the nascent technology  (blockchain).  In  addition  to  the  original  UTAUT2  constructs  the  proposed  model considers  cryptocurrency   s  characteristics  to  include  three  new  predictors  of  technology  acceptance behavior.  On  top  of  that  this  study  focuses  on  the  context  of  developing  country  and  thereafter scholars can work on a crosscountry context by applying this model to developed country context. In term  of  practical  contribution  this  study  provides  valuable  insight  to  consumers  merchants regulators developers and enthusiasts into cryptocurrency acceptance behavior. References  Abramova S. and B  hme R. 2016. "Perceived Benefit and Risk as Multidimensional Determinants of Bitcoin Use  A  Quantitative  Exploratory  Study"  Proceedings  of  the  37th  International  Conference  on Information Systems (ICIS 2016) pp. 120. Ain N. Kaur K. and Waheed M. 2016. "The Influence of Learning Value on Learning Management System Use An Extension of Utaut2" Information Development (32) pp. 13061321. Ao L. Cruickshank H. Cao Y. C. Asuquo P. Chibueze P. Ogah A. and Sun Z. 2017. "BlockchainBased Dynamic  Key  Management  for  Heterogeneous  Intelligent  Transportation  Systems"  IEEE  Internet  of Things Journal (46) pp. 18321843. Azjen  I.  1991.  "The  Theory  of  Planned  Behavior"  Organizational  Behavior  and  Human  Decision  Processes (50) pp. 179211. Bashir  M.  Strickland  B.  and  Bohr  J.  2016.  "What  Motivates  People  to  Use  Bitcoin?"  International Conference on Social Informatics Springer pp. 347367. Baur  A.  W.  B  hler  J.  Bick  M.  and  Bonorden  C.  S.  2015.  "Cryptocurrencies  as  a  Disruption?  Empirical Findings on User Adoption and  Future Potential of Bitcoin and Co" in Conference on ebusiness eservices and esociety. pp. 6380. Berentsen  A.  and  Sch  r  F.  2018.  "A  Short  Introduction  to  the  World  of  Cryptocurrencies"  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Review First Quarter 2018 (1001) pp. 116. Bollen  R.  2016.  "The  Legal  Status  of  Online  Currencies       Are  Bitcoins  the  Future"  Financial  Institutions Regulation & Corporate Governance (FIRCG) Conference Melbourne Business School pp. 138. CasadoVaraa R. Prieto J. Prieta F. D. l. and Corchado J. M. 2018. "How Blockchain Improves the Supply Chain Case Study Alimentary Supply Chain" Procedia Computer Science (134) pp. 393398. Chang S. E. Chen Y.C. and Lu M.F. 2019. "Supply Chain ReEngineering Using Blockchain Technology A  Case  of  Smart  Contract  Based  Tracking  Process"  Technological  Forecasting  &  Social  Change (144) pp. 111. Chen  L.  Lee  W.  Chang  C.  Choo  K.  and  Zhang  N.  2019.  "Blockchain  Based  Searchable  Encryption  for Electronic Health Record Sharing" Future Generation Computer Systems (95) pp. 420429. Compeau  D.  R.  and  Higgins  C.  A.  1995.  "Computer  SelfEfficacy  Development  of  a  Measure  and  Initial Test" MIS Quarterly (192) p. 189.  TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019    What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2.  Crosby  M.  Nachiappan  Pattanayak  P.  Verma  S.  and  Kalyanaraman  V.  2016.  "Blockchain  Technology Beyond Bitcoin" Berkeley p. 19. Davis  F.  D.  1989.  "Perceived  Usefulness  Perceived  Ease  of  Use  and  User  Acceptance  of  Information Technology" MIS Quarterly (133) p. 319. Dwivedi Y. K. Rana N. P. Jeyaraj A. Clement M. and Williams M. D. 2017. "ReExamining the Unified Theory  of  Acceptance  and  Use  of  Technology  (Utaut)  Towards  a  Revised  Theoretical  Model" Information Systems Frontier) pp. 116. Ermakova  T.  Fabian  B.  Baumann  A.  Izmailov  M.  and  Krasnova  H.  2016.  "Bitcoin    Drivers  and Impediments" SSRN Electronic Journal (2) pp. 118. Farell R. 2015. "An Analysis of the Cryptocurrency Industry." University of Pennsylvania Wharton Research Scholars Journal. Faul F. Erdfelder E. Lang A. G. and Buchner A. 2007. "G*Power 3 A Flexible Statistical Power Analysis Program for the Social Behavioral and Biomedical Sciences" Behavior Research Methods (392) pp. 175191. Folkinshteyn  D.  and  Lennon  M.  2017.  "Braving  Bitcoin    A  Technology  Acceptance  Model  Analysis" Journal of Information Technology Case and Application Research (18) pp. 220249. Gai  Keke  Qiu  Meikang  and  Sun  X.  2018.  "A  Survey  on  Fintech"  Journal  of  Network  and  Computer Applications (103) pp. 262273. Gao  X.  Clark  G.  D.  and  Lindqvist  J.  2016.  "Of  Two  Minds  Multiple  Addresses  and  One  Ledger Characterizing  Opinions  Knowledge  and  Perceptions  of  Bitcoin  across  Usrs  and  NonUsers" Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems  CHI \'16 San Jose CA USA pp. 16561668. Gunawan  F.  E.  and  Novendra  R.  2017.  "An  Analysis  of  Bitcoin  Acceptance  in  Indonesia"  ComTech Computer Mathematics and Engineering Applications (8) p. 241. Hair J. F. Hult G. T. M. Ringle C. M. and Sarstedt M. 2017. A Primer on Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (PlsSem) (2nd ed.). SAGE. Henry  C.  S.  Huynh  K.  P.  and  Nicholls  G.  2018.  "Bitcoin  Awareness  and  Usage  in  Canada"  Journal  of Digital Banking (2) pp. 311337. Jakkaew  P.  and  Hemrungrote  S.  2017.  "The  Use  of  Utaut2  Model  for  Understanding  Student  Perceptions Using  Google  Classroom  A  Case  Study  of  Introduction  to  Information  Technology  Course" International Conference on Digital Arts Media and Technology pp. 205209. Jorge  A.G.  Bego  a  P.P.  and  Maria  A.  R.J.  2015.  "Elderly  and  Internet  Banking  An  Application  of Utaut2" Journal of Internet Banking and Commerce (20) pp. 123. Kang J. Yu R. Huang X. Maharjan S. Zhang Y. and Hossain E. 2017. "Enabling Localized PeertoPeer Electricity  Trading  among  Plugin  Hybrid  Electric  Vehicles  Using  Consortium  Blockchains"  IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics (136) pp. 31543164. Kato K. Yan Y. and Toyoizumi H. 2018. "Blockchain Application for  Rideshare Service" 8th International Conference on Logistics Informatics and Service Sciences (LISS) pp. 15. Kick  A.  and  Connolly  A.  J.  2015.  "Bitcoin  Research  Past  Present  and  Future"  11th  Annual  USC  Upstate Research Symposium. Kralji    A.  and  Pe  tek  A.  2016.  "An  Application  of  Utaut2  Model  in  Exploring  the  Impact  of  Quality  of Technology on Mobile Internet" Journal of Economics and Business (XIV2) pp. 6677. Kumpajaya A. and Dhewanto W. 2015. "The Acceptance of Bitcoin in Indonesia Extending Tam with Idt" Journal of Business and Management (4) pp. 2838. Lee  and  Shin  Y.  J.  2018.  "Fintech  Ecosystem  Business  Models  Investment  Decisions  and  Challenges" Business Horizons (61) pp. 3546. Liu J. Jiang P. and Leng J. 2017. "A Framework of Credit Assurance Mechanism for Manufacturing Services under Social Manufacturing Context" 13th IEEE Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE) Xi\'an China pp. 3640. Mahfuz M. A. Khanam L. and Hu W. 2016. "The Influence of Culture on MBanking Technology Adoption An  Integrative  Approaches  of  Utaut2  and  Itm"  PCIMET  Technology  Management  for  Social Innovation pp. 824835. Megadewandanu  S.  Suyoto  and  Pranowo.  2016.  "Exploring  Mobile  Wallet  Adoption  in  Indonesia  Using Utaut2  An  Approach  from  Consumer  Perspective"  2nd  International  Conference  on  Science  and TechnologyComputer (ICST) Yogyakarta Indonesia. Memon  M.  A.  Ting  H.  Ramayah  T.  Chuah  F. and  Cheah  J.H.  2017.  "A  Review  of  the  Methodological Misconceptions  and  Guidelines  Related  to  the  Application  of  Structural  Equation  Modeling  A Malaysian Scenario" Journal of Applied Structural Equation Modeling (11). MendozaTello J. C. Mora H. PujolL  pez F. A. and Lytras M. D. 2018. "Social Commerce as a Driver to Enhance Trust and Intention to Use Cryptocurrencies for Electronic Payments"  IEEE Access (6) pp. 5073750751.  TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019    What Determines the Acceptance of Cryptocurrency in Malaysia? An Analysis based on UTAUT2.  Milian E.  Z.  Spinola  M.  d.  M.  and  Carvalho  M.  M.  d.  2019.  "Fintechs  A  Literature  Review  and  Research Agenda" Electronic Commerce Research and Applications (34). Moore G. C. and Benbasat I. 1991. "Development of an Instrument to Measure the Perceptions of Adopting an Information Technology Innovation" Information Systems Research (23) pp. 192222. Morkunas  V.  J.  Paschen  J.  and  Boon  E.  2018.  "How  Blockchain  Technologies  Impact  Your  Business Model" Business Horizon). Moura  A.  C.  d.  Gosling  M.  D.  S.  Christino  J.  M.  M.  and  Macedo  S.  B.  2017.  "Acceptance  and  Use  of Technology by Older Adults for Choosing a TourIsm Destination A Study  Using Utaut2" Brazilian Journal of Tourism Research (11) pp. 239269. Nakamoto S. 2008. "Bitcoin A PeertoPeer Electronic Cash System"). Nikolopoulos  F.  and  Likothanassis  S.  2017.  "Using  Utaut2  for  Cloud  Computing  Technology  Acceptance Modeling" 2nd International Conference on Internet of things Data and Cloud Computing pp. 16. Pieters  G.  and  Vivanco  S.  2017.  "Financial  Regulations  and  Price  Inconsistencies  across  Bitcoin  Markets" Information Economics and Policy (39) pp. 114. Queiroz  M.  M.  and  Wamba  S.  F.  2019.  "Blockchain  Adoption  Challenges  in  Supply  Chain  An  Empirical Investigation  of  the  Main  Drivers  in  India  and  the  USA"  International  Journal  of  Information Management (46) pp. 7082. Ravangard R. Kazemi Z. Zaker Abbasali S. Sharifian R. and Monem H. 2017. "Development of the Utaut2 Model  to  Measure  the  Acceptance  of  Medical  Laboratory  Portals  by  Patients  in  Shiraz"  Electronic Physician (9) pp. 38623869. Ringle C. M. Wende S. and Becker J.M. 2015. "Smartpls 3." from www.smartpls.com Roos C. 2015. "The Motivation and Factors Driving CryptoCurrency Adoption in Smes" in Gordon Institute of Business Science. University of Pretoria pp. 1114. Sas C. and Khairuddin I. E. 2017. "Design for Trust An Exploration of the Challenges and Opportunities of Bitcoins Users" Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems USA pp. 64996510. Seetharaman  A.  Saravanan  A.  S.  Patwa  N.  and  Mehta J.  2017.  "Impact  of  Bitcoin as a  World  Currency" Accounting and Finance Research (6) pp. 230246. Shahzad  F.  Xiu  G.  Wang  J.  and  Shahbaz  M.  2018.  "An  Empirical  Investigation  on  the  Adoption  of Cryptocurrencies among the People of Mainland China" Technology in Society (55) pp. 3340. Shehhi  A.  A.  Oudah  M.  and  Aung  Z.  2014.  "Investigating  Factors  Behind  Choosing  a  Cryptocurrency" IEEE  International  Conference  on  Industrial  Engineering  and  Engineering  Management  pp.  14431447. Thompson R. L. Higgins C. A. and Howell J. M. 1991. "Personal Computing Toward a Conceptual Model of Utilization" MIS Quarterly (151) p. 125. Urquhart A. 2018. "What Causes the Attention of Bitcoin ?" Economics Letters (166) pp. 4044. Venkatesh  V.  Morris  M.  G.  Davis  G.  B.  and  Davis  F.  D.  2003.  "User  Acceptance  of  Information Technology Toward a Unified View" MIS Quarterly (27) pp. 425478. Venkatesh  V.  Thong  J.  and  Xu  X.  2012.  "Consumer  Acceptance  and  User  of  Information  Technology Extending the  Unified Theory  of  Acceptance  and  Use  of  Technology"  MIS  Quarterly  (36)  pp.  157178. Wahl F. 2016. "Adoption of Blockchains     a Cross Cultural Comparison." University Kasssel pp. 130. Walton  A.  and  Johnston  K.  2018.  "Exploring  Perceptions  of  Bitcoin  Adoption  The  South  African  Virtual Community Perspective" Interdisciplinary Journal of Information Knowledge and Management (13) pp. 165182. Wanitcharakkhakul  L.  and  Rotchanakitumnuai  S.  2017.  "Blockchain  Technology  Acceptance  in  Electronic Medical Record System " 17th International Conference on Electronic Business Dubai pp. 5358. Zhang  F.  Liu  M.  and  Shen  W.  2017.  "Operation  Modes  of  Smart  Factory  for  HighEnd  Equipment Manufacturing in the Internet and Big Data Era" IEEE International Conference on Systems Man and Cybernetics (SMC) Banff Canada pp. 152157. Zhang  Y.  Weng  Q.  and  Zhu  N.  2018.  "The  Relationships  between  Electronic  Banking  Adoption  and  Its Antecedents  A  MetaAnalytic  Study  of  the  Role  of  National  Culture"  International  Journal  of Information Management (40) pp. 7687. Zmudzinski A. 2019. "Malaysian Cryptocurrency Regulation to Classify Digital Assets Tokens as Securities."   Retrieved 1st February 2019 from https//cointelegraph.com/ Zulhuda S. and Sayuti A. B. 2017. "Whither Policing Cryptocurrency in Malaysia?"  Iium Law Journal (25) pp. 179196.   TwentyThird Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems China 2019   '